2023-09-24
i recently went on like, a big alien 9 bender. when i was in high school i had seen the [[?alien 9 (anime)]] adaptation, and im pretty sure i read the base manga. for reference, ill be talking about alien 9s original manga, "A9 emulators" the follow up sequel to the manga, and "A9 next" the follow up follow up sequel sequel and fucked beyond belief CG manga.

the first thing that stuck out to me when reading through the A9 manga again was the art style shift early on. alien 9 was tomizawas second release to my knowledge, and its kind of exciting to see his style shift dramatically and then quickly settle into what youre probably familiar with for his work. his style hasnt really changed much since A9, but its a good style so i dont blame him at all. its pretty unique in the landscape of manga as a whole, though i will admit it is kind of annoying to try and figure out whos who in certain scenes. the simple shapes but really expressive eyes must be a godsend when it comes to mangaka schedules. though i will say the way tomizawa draws the drills is insane, the amount of detail on those things sometimes is kind of inspiring. tomizawa really likes to focus on central gimmicks for stories and in alien 9 the drills really take center stage in that regard, he must have been pretty burnt out on the small detail of the drills since his next work [[?propeller heaven]] opts for a much simpler gimmick in the form of large rectangular propellers. good shit honestly.

one of the other things that really caught my attention was the fact that tomizawa is apparently a huge sci-fi nerd, which obviously shows in most of his work, they all kind of have that campy retro sci-fi feel. but i specifically found in interesting in relation to the weird little bit of lore (its kind of lore, more headcanon ig, nothing is really concrete in tomizawas work as far as i can tell, dude plays it fast and loose) that the manga set up as a sci-fi serial. at the end of one of the volumes there are mock "cast interviews" with all the girls that play it off as if the girls are actors just playing the characters of yuri, kumi, and kasumi. i would just chuck this up to a general non-canon manga thing, like how a lot of manga have gag 4koma panels at the back of volumes, HOWEVER in emulators, the cast is noticeably older despite the story taking place no more than a year or two after the end of the original. this gives me strong "production was on hold but the child actors kept aging" type vibe. i havent heard anyone else mention this and i think its really interesting.

#manga