2024-03-04
another really cool youtube video post. for anyone that doesnt know, this is in reference to a "midnight krick" video. i highly recommend it to just about anyone. its very much worth your time. i found this video through that hazel halloween creepypasta special. a lot of comparison gets drawn between these two videos, but i think i prefer this one overall. even though the hazel video has a nicer presentation, something about this krick video is really special to me. 

of course, i think the real place to start is with the concept. if it werent for the "alternate universe iceberg" video gimmick you could basically pass this off as a creepypasta. though honestly, its probably better at this point that the game is given away right at the start of the video, misinformation in gaming circles has become a pretty serious problem if you ask me. the advent of the internet both helped and hindered the coalescing of information. its easier to get answers to your questions about games, but its also easier to stumble onto a forum thread, particularly about really obscure topics, that end up confirming your misinformation. see the [[?nights into dreams]] selph incident for more on that.

creepypastas used to be a pretty common thing when i was a kid. i remember vividly recounting as many creepypastas as i could recall to another kid on a summer camp trip one year because he just kept asking to hear more. specifically creepypastas mind you, not just general scary stories like might have happened 10-100 years prior. just like scary ghost stories became creepypastas, im sure theres some equivalent today that kids partake in, and it kind of seems like creepypastas of my youth are making a comeback today. but im not sure to what extent. like are kids actually scared of sonic.exe the way i was now that hes in friday night funkin or whatever. who knows.

regardless of anything, midnight kricks entire channel seems kind of laser focused on making creepypastas scary again. or at least, providing the same awestruck feeling i personally had about games when it came to the supposed disturbing mysteries hidden inside of them. games always seemed like an endless ocean of mystery, and krick kind of recaptures some of that, especially with this iceberg video. 

there are channels like "oddheader" today that kind of serve the same purpose that someone like "tats top videos" or "mullet mike" served back in the day. but i kind of feel a weird ironic detachment from oddheader that i didnt from a channel like tats. i walk away from a krick video in awe at the idea that a rom file could magically grow in size. whereas i walk away from an oddheader video feeling kind of gross about the amount of shitty mobile game ads i just saw, and a sense that all the "mystery" in games is just devs putting "pet the dog" styled attention mechanics in their games. i dont mean to put down the kind of content that oddheader makes, i just dont feel the same sense of pride i feel from other people in a similar space.

all that being said, i really hope that this style of "alternate universe" thing catches on at least a little bit. theres a real lack of soul in videos that just list spooky things in games, you could have just as easily read an article or watched any number of other videos covering the same thing. but with a midnight krick video, i know that im getting to see something original right from the source. this is a modern creepypasta in video form, and its really nice to see something that depsite upfront being a lie still manages to suck me in and keep me coming back. its using a video format that im pretty disillusioned with, explaination and recap videos, to tell a story. its writing instead of riffing.

this might be a bit of a tangent, but i really really like true crime videos, as do most people for whatever reason. im a white woman, i cant help it, its how i was born. but the one thing that really stopped me from watching true crime videos is that its TOO real. its real atrocities made into entertainment. and not in a way that makes it more accessible like [[killers of the flower moon]], where its serving some kind of purpose and raising awareness. true crime is almost always just shock content. its taking a very serious topic and yassifying it. jeffrey dahmer is so hecking canceled and all that.

one of my favorite films, depsite it getting a lot of hate, is [[?the house that jack built]]. i guess i could also go with [[?nightcrawler]] or something, but hear me out. this is by no means my favorite lars von trier film, but theres something really interesting about it. it gives me all the same thrills, the rush and excitement, of a true crime biopic. but its all made it, there is no jack, and no one was killed to provide a script. the house that jack built is slow and disturbing. its unlike a lot of other horror films, even those the others that von trier has made. and within that it almost feels realer than the biopics i watched when i was younger. the pokemon alternate universe iceberg is the "the house that jack built" of video game horror stories.

this video really got me thinking about the fact that "true crime" really doesnt need to be true at all. a false story can be just as exciting as any accounting of real life events, and id argue even moreso. theres no guilt in simply recounting a fictional story, and it can be whatever you want. when i try to watch true crime shows i get this sickly image stuck in my brain of a gaggle of youtubers pushing a person to commit more and more heinous crimes for the same of the content farm. there has to be some kind of weird cycle here thats being fed by videos like this making a spectacle of actual real crime. im all for depicting anything in fiction, but it just feels wrong when there are real people who were affected. none of this has to be made.

i know theres probably zero connection, and im just reading way too far into this. but i think its really interesting that midnight kricks video directly references a really obscure rob gavagan video. rob is pretty well known today for doing the kind of true crime video im talking about. but here, in this little throwaway youtube video, rob is playing a character and just making shit up that seems cool. its kind of poetic in a way that a video that gives me so much hope for the future of creative horror content on youtube is linked in some small way to an alternate universe funnily enough where rob is just making silly videos like this and being a little more creative. i dont know, id be curious to know what krick would think about any of that, but its something ive been thinking about a lot since i first watched the iceberg video.

moving past all my ramblings about the state of horror on youtube. i really love the lore of this video. theres a lot of little things that i put together on subsequent rewatches, and im sure theres a lot of stuff that i missed. i REALLY love the idea that the game isnt able to be datamined. of course here this takes the form of some kind of global game haunting, but i think that datamining has kind of spoiled a lot of the mystic of games even if overall im happy it happens. just stating that the game hasnt been datamined really expands my brain and makes me really giddy with excitement at the possibilities.

the rom file inflating in size is another really nice touch. data fuckery is a really big anxiety of mine. im a software engineer and one of the things that always gets my mind racing is the way data works. i can be pretty anal about data managment and efficiency. and beyond that, as someone who has lost multiple hard drives to data corruption and weird drive failure issues, this honestly kind of hits home for me. i know it may sound weird, but it really left me thinking about it for a long time.

i love all the little game differences in this alternate universe. idk how exciting this is if you arent that familiar with the early pokemon games, but just hearing little things like togepi being some really rare event pokemon makes me ecstatic. most of the changes are pretty believable too. if you know anything about pokemon game betas, its not hard to believe that in some alternate timeline the games are just so slightly off, disregarding the actual haunting stuff. im sure theres a lot of stuff thats really clever that im just not in deep enough to know about though.

i find it really interesting the way the video just kind of drops stuff into your lap, and then refuses to explain further. i get the feeling that krick had a ton of concepts rolling around in his brain and just threw them all here. you could probably make a whole pasta about the "mt. moon abyss" for example. but i feel like that might have been a bit of a waste. something like that really gets the brain churning and wondering what the purpose of such a thing could be. the greatest horror is the one you make in your head and all that. dropping a few details before leaving your brain to fill in the gaps is really nice and elevates whats here a lot.

the "mt. moon abyss" entry among others kind of makes me feel like krick and i share a brain cell. theres a lot of little things that are mysterious about pokemon to me, especially when i was a kid. i didnt have internet access and so weird little side areas that under the right circumstances would hold a legendary pokemon but are otherwise empty always really stuck out to me and filled me with curiosity. theres kind of a shared language between kids that grew up with pokemon games and didnt have a good way to answer any mystery right away, and i feel like thats kind of been subdued over the years. theres a lot of little details like that in this video and they always make me feel seen in one way or another.

its kind of fun that the video builds upon itself and makes callbacks to earlier parts of the video. this is probably a pretty obvious thing to do, but i feel like if youre making a video like this you might just be inclined to make up a bunch of shit and not really have it connect. the "dreams revealing secrets" portion of the video calling back to the weird wrong warp glitch in an earlier section is a really nice touch for example. you really get the sense that theres a deeper lore here. and while you can totally take a lot of the entries by themselves, you can also view them as connected and form a grander vision of what this alternate univeses pokemon games are really like.

i find it really fun that a lot of the comments on the video talk about the implications of certain things. i rarely read comments, but here a lot of people are basically just theory crafting in real time and i love it. its so rare that things make me excited to dream up theories and this is one of them.

this is honestly one of the coolest videos i think ive ever seen in the horror video space. i really want more people to make stuff like this for me to enjoy. 