2023-10-08
LP1 sits in this weird place in my brain where i know its generally seen as the bands best album by a lot of fans, but personally it almost feels like a totally different band wrote it when comparing it to [[?american football 2]] and [[?american football 3]] (mostly because they kind of were? ship of theseus style). to me personally i think this is my least favorite american football LP, it just doesnt hit me the same way the later releases from the group have. but thats not to say that i dislike it at all. on the contrary i think its definitely one of the better emo records ive ever heard.

"never meant" is obviously the most well known song off the LP and for good reason. the song has kind of become a hallmark of the rest of the emo genre with its nostalgic tapped guitar notes and its sweeping chords. it all pairs beautifully with some really exemplary midwest emo vocals from a young mike kinsella. the song writing on display here really encapsulates a style of emo that has kind of come to define the whole genre with its reminiscing and almost liminal transition period lyrics. i wouldnt be surprised if a lot of people became interested in midwest emo because of this song in particular. a lot of us can relate to this feeling of leaving someone behind, and thats a theme that carries through american footballs entire discography from songs like "summer ends" and "where are we now".

that all being said i dont want to paint a picture like "never meant" is carrying the rest of the album by itself. theres a lot to love on the album and while i wont be dedicating whole paragraphs to each song, i think its important to highlight "never meant" as a standout in emo as a whole as thats what the culture has generally decided it is.

i love the way american football uses brass, especially trumpets. "the one witht he wurlitzer" and "summer ends" are elevated so much higher by the inclusion of brass. this may sound odd but trumpets evoke so strongly in me images and feelings of late autumn and life in the small forested communities i grew up in where everything would become a slurry of golden brown and grey as winter approached. id say this is pretty clearly intentional, and the songs are all the better at invoking these feelings in the listener for it.

this ties nicely into the length of the songs. ive heard complaints about this albums weird pacing and the fact that songs drag on for a long time. "stay home" is a whopping 8 minutes, and even some of the shorter cuts feel longer than they actually are due to the repetitive way the band uses its melodies. personally ive never had an issue with this. "stay home" in particular has never felt as long as it is personally. i listen to this album a lot while working or on some kind of transit like a bus or bike ride. i think its kind of perfect for situations like that, nothing beats listening to an album like this that kind of meanders and fades in and out of action on a long train ride. a lot of emo like [[?as a sketch pad EP]], [[?OUR days]], or [[?Don't Know How to Explain It]] infuse a lot of energy and "hardcore" elements in their songs that sometimes im just not vibing with in the same way i would with american footballs LP1.

the vocals are another element i really like with this LP, later american football seems to have much more refined vocals, but here things are shaky and loose. a lot of people might see that as a negative, but honestly ive grown to really like them. albums like [[?Just Got Back From the Discomfort We're Alright]] and anything ned russin has been a part of like a personal favorite, [[?Floral Green]], have this really transcendental effect of bringing you deeper into the singers emotions and its something i really admire. that emotional honesty and forthcoming vocal delivery is something rarely seen in more cleanly produced releases and i think thats kind of a shame. [[?All My Heroes Are Cornballs]] and [[?People Who Can Eat People are the Luckiest People in the World]] are two non-emo examples that come to mind.

speaking briefly on the aesthetics of the album, the fucking house on the album cover is lovely and wonderful and i want to live in it. the way the cover progresses between this album and [[?american football 2]] is really interesting as well. the 2 albums are very different and i get the feeling that the open door on the second album is kind of hinting at the band moving away from the first albums themes and aesthetics. i really like the little house on the cover of the first album, seeing just the roof of it is kind of genius, it really allows you to place the house in whatever little depressing shit hole you personally grew up in. its a pretty universally american looking house, theres a deep solitude i feel from houses like that and its kind of terrifying how well this album can capture that exact feeling.