2023-10-06
i spent a bunch of time awhile ago playing this game with my friend. i had played a bit of the game when i was younger, but never really got that far into it, it kinda just showed up too late in my life for me to really spend much time on it. as of right now i havent played [[?ape escape 2]] or [[?ape escape 3]] so forgive me for not really being able to compare this to how the follow ups stack up. that being said, i think ape escape holds up really well and im kind of surprised that the series hasnt come back in any real way. 

the fact this game came out around the same time as [[?ocarina of time]] is really fascinating to me since i think this game does 3d zelda in a way that i think is a lot more interesting. now i love ocarina, and i love [[?majoras mask]] even more, but id be lying if i said i really liked how those games handled in some ways. early 3d zelda feels kind of stiff to me in a way that ape escape usually doesnt (with the maybe exception of how it handles jumping). [[?mario 64]] is probably the more obvious comparison, but i really got the feeling that ape escape was the zelda game i had been missing.

the way ape escape controls (bumper jumper is the only way to play 3d platformers, fight me. shoutouts to [[?lunistice]]), the way it handles items, the way its levels are laid out, its all so wonderful and inventive and im kind of genuinely angry that i havent really seen anyone else copy its style. just the fact that it uses the dual analogue setup to its advantage is insane. swinging your sword or net feels kind of clunky at first, but detaching movement from action goes a long way in keeping the flow of gameplay going. im a huge fan of the way the slingshot in particular works in this game, pulling back the stick in conjunction with the character pulling back on the sling was genuinely amazing to me the first time i saw it. the way the monkey radar swivels around, or the fact you have to spin the stick to use the hoop or the propeller, it all comes together to feel like an extra bit of control. the game does a fair bit with the concept, but i do wish they had taken it further. 

[[?luigis mansion]] isnt as ambitious as ape escape with its usage of a second stuck, but it does add the element of locking the camera to a single angle which does make it feel a little less awkward. though that being said i think there is something to be said for ape escaped momentary awkwardness letting way to something thats elevated by your commitment. pikmin also kind of fills that niche, but again that games a bit more relaxed in terms of what its asking from the player. something like mario sunshines fludd could be really interesting with ape escapes dual analogue set up. zelda obviously comes to mind as i mentioned earlier. ive always been enamored with [[?mario 3d world]], and adding dual analogue to that along with its multiplayer could open some really insane possibilities. some kind of celeste styled precision platformer might benefit from dual analogue in 3d, maybe lining up a grappling hook or a dash ability. the use of this style of analogue input combined with a slight auto aim could really go a long way in reducing the need for something like Z targeting in a lot of 3d game if you ask me. just the fact that your brain has to process that extra directional input and think about how its going to play out could really speed up an otherwise slow game.

i understand that a lot of companies dont really feel like taking the risk on new control schemes like this, but im really hoping the indie space picks up the slack there in some way, even if it just ends up being a small demo or game jam game, i really think exploring new control methods is worth it in the long run, theres a lot of stuff that still kind of sucks about games in terms of control, and a lot of stuff that seems a little stale. playing ape escape was a real breath of fresh air in that way and i think its decision to use a somewhat unorthodox (though it probably wasnt at the time since nothing was orthodox) control scheme impacted my enjoyment a lot. even if it didnt blow my mind or offer me the best possible version of this concept, it was new and fresh enough that a little bit went a long way.

i might talk about the games content another time, i kinda just wanted to focus on the thing that really jumped out to me. though i will say briefly that this game has the best "oops youre inside a bigs stomach watch out for the stomach acid" level (also known as macrophilia/vore levels for the educated individuals) ive seen since [[?bowsers inside story]] (though thats kind of an unfair contest lets be real). i liked the dinosaur levels, and writing that out now i kinda realized that i had forgotten this game had a time travel theme, it doesnt really do a whole lot with that here. theres a really pretty ruins level thats totally my jam, if you put a ruins level in your game thats all overgrown and cloudy im living there. ive seen really reallllly pretty levels from the later 2 games and im really excited to see those at some point in the future. also something something this game has the greatest OST known to man wtf was "japan studio" on dude??

#games