2024-02-26
i rewatched battle royale a few weeks ago. i watched it when i was in high school years ago, but i dont think i really appreciated it at the time. ive kind of fallen in love with this movie a little bit, and while i feel like im not going to be able to bring that much new to the conversation surrounding the film, i do want to at least share a few things i really like about it and what stood out to me.

i find the way the film depicts the relationship between adults (specifically teachers diegetically, though i think the film is talking about adults in general) and children. battle royale isnt subtle about this at all. the opening of the teacher talking to the students on the island is pretty clear with its messaging in my opinion. the adults in this society are on some level fearful of the children, and end up putting them in situations that are incredibly inhumane.

the film almost becomes a microcosm of the overarching society with the random weapon distribution for example. although i do think that its a bit of skewed microcosm if any. the fact that the whole island almost instantly devolves into chaos can either be seen as an exaggerated but accurate model of our society, where people are incentivized to hurt each other to claw their way to the top. or it can be seen as some calloused view of reality, perhaps the naive world view of insulated people, in this case adults, who strip away the humanity from people to ad hoc them into this lens.

no matter how you look at it, its interesting to note that this whole situation is designed. its controlled and intentional. if this is some skewed model of society, it only exists the way it does because of arbitrary rules. of note is that the fact that peace really isnt an option here. the whole thing is like some elaborate murder trolley hypothetical. it borders on being a social experiment, but really it kind of ends up being a kobyashi maru. the only winning move is to literally break the rules, though if you can really call anything here a win is questionable.

one of the other things that stood out to me is the idea of the adults and the children being more closely linked than they are different. theres a common adage about adults simply being kids that got good at pretending, or some variation thereof. the final scene, and the recurring knife really gave me this sense.

i like the idea that the knife represents adulthood. when the character gets the knife, its in a moment of weakness for the teacher. the mask slips, and its clear that the power adults hold over the students is kind of arbitrary if you think about it for more than a few minutes. the like "what should an adult say to a kid?" is really interesting to me. there isnt really much that needs to be said. so much of our development is somewhat instinctual, and kind of just happens in key moments in our lives. the reason people who step out of their comfort zone are more developed and equipped to handle things really boils down to them having had more of these defining moments. growth doesnt simply come from talking.

there really isnt a lot of mention of the laws of the world, or the fact that this weird death game is set up in the first place. the context surrounding it falls into the background and i think thats really important here. we often dont question why things like schools are set up the way they are, at least not when were inside of them. they end up falling into the background of our lives, irreversibly shaping us into new people before spitting us out, never to be thought of again.

battle royale is interesting not only for the things it chooses to say and depict. but also, perhaps moreso, the things its willing to keep quiet about. in the final scene of the cut i watched, we see the two leads reentering society with their knife. theyve made it through some facsimile of school life, and are now stepping into the real world as "adults". the characters are irreversibly damaged, and i get the sense that the same could be said of every adult character in the film just as much.

i really love this film. theres something really moving about it, and it has a lot of layers. im sure that a lot of other people who are much smarter than i am have covered every inch of this film and dissected all of its little social commentaries. but i dont know if i really want to do that right now. id love to see what others have to say about it though as im sure theres a lot of things that i just never even considered.

now, im semi aware of the sequels and spin offs this movie spawned, not sure if im really interested in those. i read a bit of the novel in high school for a book project (i dont know how to read, i never finished the project teehee). at some point i really want to try out the book again. aside from that, i am very well aware of [[?battle royale ii: blitz royale]], the tomizawa spin off manga inspired by the second film? wild concept, but its tomizawa and his writing always consensually hits me like a sack of cold bricks so im very much looking forward to reading that whenever i get the chance.

also worth note is that nakagawa is CERTIFIED FANDOM.COM FINAL GIRL. for anyone reading this in the next 2 years, fandom.com was this cock roach of a website that clogged up actual search results the same way 5 bags of potato chips clog major arteries. i waltzed my sorry ass over to the battle royal wiki for a minute to check a detail and instantly remembered how unusable this site is. the funniest thing on this wiki is mention of a proposed 2012 battle royal TV series on the fucking CW network. holy shit cant wait for that to come out! i was kind of puzzled why there wasnt much from the series after the success of the inferior hunger games films. youd almost expect this to be a godzilla situation, where hollywood releases like 3 dumb fuck movies and then anno just strolls in drunk as shit with two escorts and drops some milquetoast mother fuckers ass by making the best shit youve ever seen. but no, i think this is probably for the best, the second battle royal film seems kind of middle of the road if the crickets know whats up. i think it might be good that this just remains as an apparently classic novel and a really influential film. i guess [[?squid game]] kind of fills in that niche a little bit. that blend of social commentary and big power death game really works there in my opinion, even if i did end up preferring battle royals execution to be honest.