2023-12-11
i read this about a week or two ago, and i instantly fell in love with it. bibliomania has that exact bizarre french art short film type vibe i love to see. its like [[?nekojiru|nekojiru-sou]] in that sense. everything feels so odd and out of place, and it knows when and how to reveal its hand. it plays with your expectations when it comes to the "moral of the story". i havent looked too far into the author yet, but if this is any indication of their other work, its a really promising start be it more manga or some other form of artistic venture honestly. this has such a good blend of visual and narrative spectacle that id happily partake in more works like this.

im very glad i went into this work blind. i had seen a video or two pop up in my youtube feed, but usually when that happens now i end up just putting the title of the work their discussing onto my watch list and move on without actually watching the video. too often are video essays about works like this just raw 1:1 retellings. it kind of reeks if you ask me, ive known a lot of people that end up just watching videos explaining whatever weird horror adjacent thing and forego actually watching the work itself. whatever youtuber bro gets an easy video and they seem to rack in a lot of views, usually just being a simple retelling or basic bitch "analysis" of whatever thing without adding anything to the conversation. 

in a lot of cases, videos like that actively detract from the conversation. weve suffered through almost 2 decades of yume nikki discussion that usually centers around the topics of hikikomori and sexual assault without much room to talk around it. its always "X thing IS about THIS", its very objective and definitive statements in a medium thats very loose and interpretative. if one of these bibliomania videos popped off im sure suddenly this whole work would be about nothing more than whatever mix of post world war 2 japan, information dark age, or adherence to tradition themeing the youtuber decided to put in their video and then back up with pictures of hitler burning books or whatever. 

going into a work thats so symbolic and interpretive with a notion of purpose already in your head changes the experience drastically. suddenly youre ad hoc fitting everything youre seeing into that tiny box you were given and almost entirely discarding everything else that might speak to you in some other way. the box says "critique of imperialism" and thats a pretty big box so you can shove a lot of stuff in it, anything that doesnt fit probably doesnt matter right? 

all this is to say that i had a really good time with bibliomania and it spoke to me personally in a way im not sure i would have picked up on so clearly if i hadnt have gone in without knowing anything. the way alice rejects all the odd denizens learned helplessness is really beautiful. it reminded me of so many people, how those people underestimated me based on my own unwillingness to open up to them in any meaningful way.

theres this strange thing that happens when youre significantly abused, specifically as a child in my opinion, where the people around cant quite seem to understand what you are. its easy for them to see your scars, but almost impossible for them to see your pain. watching alice work through these different peoples very adult, frankly unhealthy coping mechanisms and being able to see them for what they were, it spoke to a hopeful part of me i hadnt really considered in quite a while. im really glad i got to read this for myself.