2023-10-04
when i was younger i was obsessed with the concept of the 2d platformer twin stick shooter. it seemed a lot easier to make than a full 3d shooter, and the amount of interesting things you could do with the concept was staggering to me at a young age. at the time the only real examples i could find were bleed and [[?crackle cradle]] (theres probably a lot of baggage there with that latter pick lets be real). i didnt get to play bleed until years after i had heard about it for a variety of reasons, but it was one of those games that just stuck with me long enough that i eventually did play it. 

the game feels a little floaty at first, but once you get used to it its very satisfying to try and go for high scores. everything ends up feeling really precise and fast, dodging bullets and focusing your fire almost makes the game feel like a platformer bullet hell similar to [[?luna nights]] or [[?copy kitty]]. the game really rewards you for sticking through with it, the only real issue in that regard is that its over fairly quickly, so by the time you get good at the game its already just kind of over so youre stuck replaying previous levels. bleed 2 does fix that issue up a bit with its extra modes for replaying the game, but even then its a bit light on content. modding support for a game like this would go a long way in my opinion, even if it was a fairly basic level editor.

im really glad this game got a sequel, it really cranks everything to eleven. the focus on deflecting enemy projectiles is a really nice addition and improves the flow of the game a lot. running through levels and deflecting projectiles is insanely satisfying and it adds so much to that moment to moment gameplay. counter-play is an often overlooked element in games if you ask me and its great to see it done so well here. overall the sequel feels so much more exciting, everything shakes and has suck wonderful impact. bullets feel muck larger and flashier, and the soundtrack is super high energy. its got that old vlambeer styled kick to it that i cant get enough of.

even today the 2d platformer twin stick shooter is kind of annoyingly rare despite top down twin stick shooters being so popular. [[?madness project nexus]] almost counts, but not quite, that has a bit more a 2.5d flair to it. [[?soldat]] comes to mind as an early semi popular example. there was [[?small arms]] this weird XBLA game i doubt anyone remembers but has some really neat designs, kind of a smash bros with guns? ive seen [[?abuse (game)]] and [[?revita]] around and i might check those out at some point. the [[?thing thing (series)]] flash games are probably the thing that got me interested in the twin stick genre to begin with, its edge might feel a lil outdated today, but i think it kinda fucks and im very excited for [[?500 caliber contractz]] as it looks like thing thing is one of the main influences there (im like 90% sure on this). and i realllly want to look into [[?rusted moss]], that might just be exactly the game ive been looking for for a long time. as of right now there arent a lot of these being made as far as i can tell, most of the games i listed are fairly old and its kind of a shame that this style of game isnt as popular as i think it should be.

#games