2023-11-13
i really loved butterfly effect when i was a kid. like i was probably 8 or 9 when i watched this shit and it for sure did something to my little mush brain. this is not a movie you should be showing your kid, or really anyone else for that matter. shit is just such an awful representation of what life is, youd be better off watching [[?requiem for a dream]] or something to be honest. at least the acting would be more believable.

i was convinced at a young age that this was just how life was and that id go through the same hardships. this was a common theme with a lot of the media that i watched as a kid. i was told directly or indirectly a lot that i was a bad kid by a lot of the adults in my life, so i just assumed that id like, end up in prison or something because all the portrayals of kids in my general circumstance ended up in these really awful scary worlds. looking back at it now having been through a lot of the things these movies talk about, this type of shit did not prepare me whatsoever.

its so weird coming back to this movie and having none of the emotional beats land at all for me. everything is played so melodramatically and its constantly giving me insane whiplash with how fast this character is just okay with everything. i want to see the slow mental deterioration of this guy as he desperately tries to save his friends (really just his girlfriend lets be real, dude doesnt give a shit about anyone else). im thinking now about a character like homura from [[madoka magica]] and how that show basically did butterfly effect in a 20 minute episode and actually good and interesting to watch.

this movie feels like its made for children. or like really media illiterate people who have never been touched by things like suicide, drug abuse, sexual abuse. while watching certain things i like to take notes, and a good chunk of my notes for this film were me just going on about how childish this feels. at multiple points i felt like i was watching a "[[?donnie darko]] 4kids dub" or "[[?undertale]] fanfic where the guys fucking up his pacifist run" or "[[?everything everywhere all at once]] but for abused teenagers". and like im sure if you are a kid this might change your life and be your favorite movie, it was for me as a kid certainly. but now like a decade and a half later, i feel like there are so many other things that i could have watched that would have actually helped me as i went through things.

abused people, especially abused kids, deserve honest media that will talk to them like human beings. i do not feel that from this movie at all and it kind of makes me upset. a lot of times media like this does end up in the hands of the kids that are the most neglected. no ones paying attention to us so were out here watching [[?elfen lied]] and changing our profile pictures to [[?serial experients lain PSX |lain]] every other week. wouldnt it be really nice if we stopped stigmatizing mental illness and gave kids some actually decent material to mull over? i think part of the reason that so many mentally ill kids are gravitated towards manga and anime is that a lot of the time its the only real world we can fall into where things are somewhat reflective of our realities.

maybe its different now, but i dont remember shit in terms of like decent media that made me feel actually seen and gave me hope until i started reading [[?shaman king]] and [[?hellsing]], and at that point no one was going to bat an eye at me consuming stuff like that because no adult had fucking read it. i dont think my mother every opened one of the [[?hellsing]] or [[?rosario vampire]] (volume 1 bondage rape scene if youre unfamiliar. rivaling butterfly effects 5 minute "time to child molestation" record jesus fucking christ, less restraint than [[?serbian film]]) volumes i would rent from the library even once. theyre just silly comics what could possibly be in them?? all im saying is that shaman king volumes 19 and 20 were more of a father to me than my actual factual father.

theres probably something to be said about the value of something like butterfly effect being accessible to (and in my opinion, made for) children. i just wish it had been been better representation for the things it tries to talk about. kids deserve good acting and pacing that doesnt go from 0 to rape in 5 minutes flat yknow? idk dude, parents need to keep a better eye on the media their kids consume, and not in like a "YOU CANT PLAY THIS ITS TOO VIOLENT FOR A 25 YEAR OLD BABY SUCH AS YOURSELF" kind of way, more of a "hey buddy, why do you like this movie where everyone dies and the guy chokes his girlfriend on a tang beach?" kind of way.