2023-09-26
ive played cave story more times than im really willing to think about. ive played most major releases of it, and ill probably play it a lot more in the future as i get nostalgic for it or introduce it to friends. the game is really something special and introduced me and countless other devs to a world of self made games that ive kind of been riding the waves of ever since. when i got access to my first computer in early high school, we were relatively quite poor and the computer itself was nothing to write home about, but that meant that free (or easily pirated), and low spec games were my only real option. cave story was one of the games that ushered me into the world of [[?rpg maker 2k3]] games like [[?OFF]] and the wonderful [[?toilet in wonderland]], small indie stuff like [[tess]], [[?the underside]], and [[?spelunky classic]], and way too many emulated games that i didnt have the chance to play otherwise, [[?aria of sorrow]] is a good example.

something about having to scrounge around in the depths of gamejolt, itch, and rom websites birthed some kind of weird media exploration in me that hasnt ever really left me. and im really happy about that. one of the pieces of advice i have for any novice artist is to gain a healthy drive to discover new media you havent ever heard of before, it helps you gain a more eclectic mental library which helps you stave off that incestuous kind of art that feels too much like whatever one thing youre pulling from and it stops feeling like YOURS. for me that drive partially began with cave story.

cave story itself seems like a real melting pot of genre conventions and ideas lifted from early famicom titles, but also relatively obscure to the west MSX and PC-98 games that im not going to claim i know a whole lot about, its certainly something i want to look into more, and after playing cave story and taking even the slightest of glances at those older releases its something you just kinda get the sense for. "oh yeah, this game has similar physics", "oh this sprite art is very akin to daisukes", "oh these enemies are very odd like cave storys". this line of thinking can probably be seen as being "this has real boss baby vibes"-esque, but in my opinion, being able to trace that rough line of influence is really exciting. kind of an inverse of watching a formative work like [[twin peaks]] or [[?evangelion]] and then noticing its influence in a lot of other things. and thats no exception for cave story, stick around the indie scene long enough and youll notice little bits of cave story everywhere.

talking about the game itself is a little redundant at this point, im sure most people have played it and the game is kind of talked about to death. at least to me, i havent seen much coverage of the game in the last few years outside of smaller video creators and such. that being said the game is worth talking about. the amount of charm everything is dripping with is kind of astonishing. all the characters and locations are super memorable and i can pick up this game basically any time and i just kind of know where everything is. some of the room layouts are burned into the back of my brain permanently. ive always really been fond of the labyrinth and anything set outside with those rolling clouds is a treat. id happily live pretty much anywhere on the island.

one of the only things that i can lament with the game is that there isnt more of it, daisuke hasnt made many games but i sure wish he would, his funny little characters always bring a smile to my face and the world needs more of them. there are plenty of fan mods out there like [[?jenkas nightmare]] that have some really great things going for them, but unfortunately lack much in the way of truly new content. outside of the new room layouts and stories, theres no sign of wholly brand new area themes, characters, weapons, things like that. i understand that this is probably asking a lot from free fan mods, but id be lying if i said it wasnt something i looked for in continuations to games. (i am also aware of the game [[?rockfish]] being recently shown off more, and i intend to check that out some more along with going more in depth with [[?kero blaster]] at some point)

in that regard i think a game like [[?the underside]] goes a long way in giving me what i want. the game was never finished, and its a lot more derivative of a work than something like [[tess]], but in my opinion thats not really a bad thing. now keep in mine i havent PLAYED the game in quite awhile, so i cant really speak on its gameplay changes much (which im not too worried about, i care a lot more about the world and its characters anyway), but the sheer variety of locations and new entities is staggering. it really does kind of feel like the cave story sequel i had longed for as a kid. the game felt massive and took me a really long time to finish despite apparently being finished in about an hour according to some of the gameplay videos online? as sad as i am about this game never being finished, im really glad it does exist for me to gawk at and have it fuel for my mind to envision a world where more cave story does exist. 

#games 