2024-01-01
im honestly not sure i have all that much to say about this film to be honest. there was a lot about it that i really liked, and i think overall i probably did enjoy the film. however, its just not really hitting me the way i would like.

the films covered in angsty, and normally youd see that be said in a negative light, but i usually really enjoy angst. im not sure i have a connection to this specific flavour of angst however. i understand what the movies saying and i feel for it a lot of the time, i just cant really put myself into it in this case. that might change on a rewatch, but i wouldnt hold my breath for that honestly.

i was reminded a bit of [[?the savages]], i really enjoy that film, and it hit me really hard the first couple of times i saw it. which is interesting to me seeing as a lot of similar elements show up here, but in this case they failed to grab me.

theres also a lot going on in this film. for an hour and a half runtime, detachment loves to introduce new plot threads and characters that i end up not really remembering? im a bit torn on this because it is kind of interesting and on brand so to speak to quickly jump into an awful situation and then quickly leave it behind, like the film is making eye contact with a homeless person before looking away awkwardly. 

i do kind of wish detachment had settled down a little bit, let some of the other plot threads just kind of happen on screen and focus in on the lead and his already 3 or 4 existing plot threads. say what you will about magnolia and its runtime, but at least it let all of its individual characters have a story. the cast of apparently noteworthy characters in detachment might even be higher than magnolias, but its clocking in at half the runtime and it kind of ends up making seemingly really important payoffs like the "i fucks with you" scene just kind of come out of nowhere. this just ends up feeling like the film had a lot of "politics of care giving" talking points to get through and gave them all equal footing.

i think one of my main sticking points with detachment is that it almost feels like its not willing to take itself seriously. what i mean by that is this movie really pushes its OST hard. a lot of horribly depressing things happen in the film, but instead of letting them be sad, theres this really kind of generic piano score to undercut any kind of emotion the scene itself could be giving me.

i recently watched [[?dancer in the dark]] and one of the things i really appreciate about it and all the lars von trier films ive seen is how much he lets his characters breath. most of the music is diegetic, and while i dont think this has to be the case for every film thats going for a darker tone, i will say it does end up helping the atmosphere of the film and makes the events of the film and its characters feel a little more real and relatable.

there are a couple of times in this film i had wished that it had slowed down, cut the music for a bit, and let the two characters live on my screen for a little while. let the foley artists go nuts, i want to feel like im so unimaginably close to these characters in this awkward intimate moment and feel like im trespassing into their miserable little lives. i can forgive a lot in a film if you let me feel something by myself.

putting all that aside however, i do want to quickly talk about some of the things i really liked about detachment. there is so much here to like. while i dont think it really sticks the landing on everything, it at least put a little seed in my brain of what it wanted to do.

im very intrigued by the main character. im not really sure that i like him, or that hes a good person or whatever, but i think thats probably for the best in a movie like this. the film does kind of dip into that weird "im a fucking asshole but everyone clapped so its okay" tough love vibe here and there, but i dont really get the sense that the its trying to justify his shitty behavior. clearly theres a lot going on in this mans life, and i feel like i can understand why he does the things he does even if i dont like it. i do kind of worry that a lot of people will watch this film with like a weird justice boner and idolize this shitty little man, but ig thats not really my problem.

i also really enjoy the ambiguous nature of the grandfather  and the mother character. unless i just totally missed something, it wasnt really fully explained what kind of relationship the main character had with either of them. of course we get bits of it, the grandfather was some kind of abusive and the mother was some flavour of depressed, im still left with a lot of questions about this characters upbringing and exactly where his emotions are coming from. i do kind of want there to be a little more explanation in that regard, but i do find the whole thing kind of charming in a way, leaving enough open to fill in the blanks.

overall i have kind of mixed feelings on detachment, i like a lot about it, and i like what it could have been. i just think it needed to be a little tighter and held together. feels kind of like a stage play that wasnt quite translated to film in a way that made sense. watch [[?the savages]] i guess.