2024-03-06
i watched this as it was airing. but i figure now is as good a time as any to get into it a little bit. slice of life anime have a nasty habit of making me feel like absolute shit for one reason or another. but i ended up really liking this one. the whole show feels really cozy, and spending time with its characters is a lot of fun.

everyone here kind of fills a little niche, which is pretty common for shows like this. it kind of lends to that breezy feeling. its the kind of thing you can just easily jump into, and i really like that. theres isnt much of an overarching plot to speak of like with [[?kimi wa hokago insomnia]] which im watching currently. its all very low stakes, and i know i kind of gripe about lack of stakes a lot of the time. but if im under no assumption that there are going to be high stakes it doesnt really matter and kind of becomes a benefit if that makes sense.

i was really surprised by how attached i got to these  characters, watching a show like this weekly is a very different feeling. when i watched [[?heavenly delusion]] for example i kind of just binged the whole thing in one night. but here i was forced to watch each episode as it aired. its kind of frustrating sometimes, but its a good kind of frustration. it means that i watched the OP every single time, same with [[?chainsaw man]] which i watched around the same time. that op has stuck in my head way longer than a lot of other shows that ive watched and i can like vividly picture parts of it in my head. i cant name the characters for shit (aside from yua, probably one of my favorite characters names ever ngl), but i can sure as hell tell you about them. i still end up quoting jobko a lot in my day to day, and i think its because i had to stick around with these characters for more than one late night.

i will say, on the topic of jobko. its always kind of annoying when a show has a character that is a native english speaker, but then the show just uses a japanese seiyu that kind of just reads the english lines kind of poorly. there are native english seiyu in japan that speak japanese just fine, ive seen them. so its kind of a pity that they dont get cast in roles like jobko. i understand why it happens, and its kind of a small complaint. these productions are fucking shoestring and spending the extra bit of time to find a seiyu that fits just right is probably a lot of work. its just a shame that profit motives are such a huge thing for productions like this since it usually means we get lower quality products overall.

in that same vein, one things thats really been bugging me lately is how shows like DIY or [[?kimi wa hokago insomnia]], which are ostensibly about getting you into a hobby to some degree, dont really show you a real world example of that hobby being performed? like in DIY, the whole point is that its meant to teach you about DIY projects right? its even semi educational, i had no idea what an anchor bolt was before watching DIY (which is kind of funny, i almost got seriously injured when i was a kid in a treehouse building accident). so personally i think it would be really cool if there was some kind of after credits sequence or something that just shows like, a real version of whatever the characters built. even if its not 1:1, i just want like a [[?postcards from buster]] styled segment where they just go visit a guy in hokaido or something that builds benches or whatever. show me that this is real yknow?

the other thing that kind of bugs me about a show like this is that i want the romance aspect to be a little more pronounced. like i dont know if this is just some weird otaku bait thing. but thing its really frustrating to me when a clearly romantic subplot is there, but never really overt enough for it to be real. i felt this way about [[suzume no tojimari]] too. id rather it just not be there at all if its going to be stuck in this plausible deniability space for the whole runtime. im very tired of the lack of follow through. i dont know, i get the feeling this just comes off as a nitpick, but it really irks me