2023-10-10
ive been somewhat obsessed with this game for a long time. growing up as a kid i loved video games but my family was way too poor to afford a console aside from an NES my mom found at a garage sale or something, and at some point she also found a whole box with games. the mario and TMNT games of course, [[?final fantasy 1]] was also included and subsequently ruined my entire life. but then there was a bunch of random crap that no one remembers of like the unlicensed tengen [[?alien syndrome]], the very bootleged but very interesting [[?stunt kids]], a really beautiful peter pan game called [[?peter pan and the pirates]] that has influenced me more than id like to admit, that simpsons [[?bart vs the space mutants]] game, and [[?city connection]] of all things which was the only one i had the manual for (some of the art in that thing is really cute). a lot of stuff that people  end up forgetting a lot of the time unless youre just really into weird NES unlicensed carts or they were all you had like in my case.

all that being said the one game thats really stuck with me and constantly pops into my stupid little mush brain is faxanadu. im aware that theres a bunch of games in the xanadu series, faxanadu itself being named after the fact its the famicom spinoff of xanadu, but ive only really played this and a bit of [[?xanadu next]] which was really cool, i just wish it was easier to get running on modern hardware. [[?tokyo xanadu]] looks kind of interesting, and im interested in checking out the earlier falcom titles (its my understanding that hudson soft actually developed and published faxanadu, but the games lineage lies with falcom so thats why i bring it up) because ive heard a lot about them but theyre still kind of a blind spot for me.

the game itself is really cozy, its a bit stiff sometimes and there are a few notable glitches that are one of the bigger things youll see talked about in relation to the game today, but overall i think its still worth looking at today. the game is a real looker for the nes, the amount of detail hudson managed to squeeze out of the limited palette is kind of astonishing. its a lot of muddy drab colors, but i think its fitting for the game overall. i get the feeling this game might have been in mind when plastiboo penned [[?vermis]] earlier this year. theres something really crunchy and slimey about the way all the colors intermingle. 

the sountrack is really fun, its pretty nostalgic for me. as is customary the password/save screen has the best music, its so soothing and hollow, feels very otherworldly at times and it really gets you in the mood for the game youre about to play. that transcendental quality carries through a lot of the games best tracks. early villages feel run down in that kind of "the world is harsh and cruel" way. cathedrals always fill me with a warm, melancholic homely feeling. fog filled caverns really put you on edge and give off that sickly alien feeling i get from parts of [[?ecco the dolphin]] or a movie like [[?eden log]]. and there are parts of the tree that have a really haunting tune that feels like the inside of a rotting tree trunk with its dry melody and damp bass line.

on that note i also want to point some attention to the wonderful arrangements out there for the soundtrack, im not the biggest fan of how the NES sounds and usually find myself appreciating what they were going for more than where they ended up if that makes sense. "ryohawk" has some pretty beautiful arrangements, the "world of mist" song in particular feels really nice and reminds me a lot of parts of [[?celestes]] soundtrack. the channel "gabb" has a whole 23 minute video playing the OST on a piano that really made me appreciate some parts of the soundtrack that were a little more action heavy that i didnt really like on the NES (though i wish his audio was cleaner, it would be so good please dear god). "soundole VGM covers" has a really wonderful version of the church theme where he uses an "Akai EWI 4000s", my understanding is that its a electric wind instrument and holy shit i want one now this is so beautiful its $1000 kill me. 

for my money though, the enemy sprites are where its at here, theyre all absolutely disgusting and beautiful, the charron, muconid, lamprey, and rokusutahn sprites are all so evocative, if you like large casts of freaky little guys you could do a lot worse thats for sure. they add a lot to the world overall and the sheer variety of enemies really brings the whole thing to life. there arent many games on the NES that are lavishly detailed as this. i would love to see an updated version of the game with iterated sprites like [[cave story]] ended up getting. 

there have been 2 fan remakes to my knowledge, an old 2003 remake by "carlos andres ramirez C." that i cant find any info about aside from this archive link https://archive.org/details/faxanadu? im kind of interested to check this one out, it looks super janky and i love it. and there was a more modern remake by "R3 games", im not a big fan of it, i think its a bit misguided.

R3 has done a bunch of these NES remakes and while i commend the dedication, its kind of telling that he has done so many, they all feel a little underbaked and i dont think youre going to see people calling these the definitve way to play any given game like you do with the zelda 2 enhanced edition by hoverbat. his faxanadu port is really odd, it uses a lot of stock effects from whatever engine hes using and it kind of just doesnt fit with the rest of the game in my opinion. making a remake of a game is a lot of work, and im find with changes obviously, id just like it to feel like a finished polished game on its own. these remakes feel a lot more like someone effectively using the original games resources as an asset pack, its a very odd feeling. im probably just really picky about these things to be totally honest though, maybe other people will like this version of the game?

as mentioned earlier theres a pretty substantial glitch regarding one of the games items. a pendant in the game thats meant to increase your power does the opposite, this is apparently due to the fact that the game is checking if the the pendant HASNT been picked up before giving you the buff. theres a really interesting [[?displaced gamer (yt)]] video about this that i highly recommend checking out. i understand this isnt intentional, but personally i find it kind of fascinating. it almost feels like one of those intentional NES beginners traps. 

i never played the original [[?dragon quest]] as a kid, but i had that beautiful guide book for it at some point and i remember being really intrigued by the supposed "cursed items" that would decrease your stats and be a pain to get rid of. this pendant glitch reads the same way to me, a kind of beginners trap. i know its probably taboo game design or whatever, but i think stuff like this is really interesting and its one of those weird organic community building things these old NES games had. theres something really cool about playing old games like this blind alongside a friend or two. it can be frustrating but i think its add this "aw man did you grab the pendant too?" type of energy that isnt very common today outside of maybe the [[?dark souls]] community. call me a fucking weirdo and spank my little ass but i think its cool, i want more weird stuff like this in games, though i understand why it isnt there as much anymore.