2023-11-27
after reading [[?chainsaw man]] a few months ago ive been on a bit of manga reading kick. its super easy to pull out my phone and read a chapter or so on lunch breaks and such, and its meant ive got a lot more reading in this year than i have since i was a kid (im a child who loves funny pictures and hates words, fucking sue me). ive been working my way through a couple of shorter series since [[dorohedoro]] took me so long, so i decided to give [[inside mari]] and now fire punch a shot.

fujimoto really won me over with [[?chainsaw man]]. his writing style and aesthetics are superb. fujimoto himself has stated [[?flcl]] as an influence on his work and yeah, i get it. there is so much wild shit going on CSM, and i was really eager to give one of fujimotos other major releases a shot. fire punch was the one that caught my eye first and its really promising having come from CSM. theres a lot to live up to in that regard, and while i dont think fire punch is perfect, you can really see fujimotos style take form here and its really interesting to see him in a less refined state.

fire punch takes a lot of risks with its narrative and character that dont always pay off, but you can bet on them being interesting. plot threads are dropped hard here, and it can be really disorienting if you arent prepared for it. its sometimes hard to tell what was intentional or not, characters will show up, pull some shit, and then get turned into a tree the next volume without having much in the way of development. i can see this feeling kind of rushed, or unsatisfying. personally however, i think the way fire punch foregoes a traditional structure is really interesting.

fire punch feels like it isnt interested in all of its small individual parts so much as its interested in the larger message. it almost feels like fujimoto worked backwards from the central idea of a man engulfed in flames coming to terms with his own humanity. it doesnt matter how the blessing system works, or why the world is the way it is. this is just how fujimoto decided to deliver his message.

why is the world is post apocalyptic? because the author wanted to write about togatas love of movies in a world divorced from the concept. the average fire punch audience member can probably relate to the feeling of no one around them having the same level of interest and knowledge on the art medium you love that they do. this feeling is exaggerated and heightened by the fact that movies dont exist anymore and are the furthest thing on peoples minds in the world of fire punch.

i love when a story is so confident with its metaphor that it becomes world building. im fascinated by fujimotos writing because it always feels like hes just telling me about his life, and about his feelings on things, but its always through this lens of spectacle. a metaphorical piece is very rarely accurate, objective, and its usually pretty one sided. but who cares? im here to see a guys innermost emotions via fire covered naked man, or chainsaw limb pervert. fire punch is how it FEELS to be creative, to make mistakes, to continue to live. i never want fujimoto to be anything but honest with me in his writing.

i dont care about plot holes, or unsatisfying plot threads, ass pull deus ex machinas, underutilized characters, contrivances. none of that matters to me anymore. just make your work say something, and have it be honest to who you are as an author. i want to feel like im reading your secret diary when i watch your amateur movie shot on a shitty camera. 

be everything you can be, say everything you want to say, and then die.