
DISCLAIMER
i think this show is best viewed as blind as possible, like the dumb ass marketing for this show spoils part of the fun in my opinion, i wish i could have watched it fully blind OOPS.

---

2023-10-09
i watched this years ago but i think it might still be my favorite portrayals of zombies ive seen. as of right now ive only seen the anime, i know that the manga has progressed a lot farther but i just havent read that nor have i seen the live action film adaptation (i know live action anime adaptations are usually considered pretty bad, but i have a weird fascination with them). the studio is mostly known for pretty chill or comedic anime, im not super familiar with their other work but ive had my eye on [[?asobi asobase]], [[?hakumei and mikochi]], [[?jibaku shounen kanako-kun]], and [[?classroom of the elite]] which i know my friend is really into. really, aside from their danganronpa adaptation (i probably wont look into these i kinda dont give a fuck) gakkou gurashi feels like even more of a left turn than it already did.

i think most people that know anything about this show know about its OP and its first episodes twist. im genuinely a little angry that i watched the show knowing full well about the one of the larger spoilers in the show. i was a lot less vigilant about that kind of thing prior to a few years ago, and i do think i would have had a really good time finding out about the early twist on my own. that being said the marketing for this show really drops the ball in my honest opinion. im sure most people dont care like at all, but personally i think youre kind of working against yourself if your poster, the main image people are going to be seeing when they pick up your series kind of gives away the whole thing. for comparison [[madoka magica]] and [[?happy sugar life]] (oops) both have very subversive plots, or in the case of the latter have twists in the first episode that youd never gleam from promotional material alone for the most part (madoka and gakkou gurashi both have nitroplus ties, and theyre usually pretty good at this so idk wtf happened). theres a little goblin in my brain that wonders if the same is true of something like [[?evangelion]] at its release, but ill have to dig into that another time. overall its kind of just a shame that if you arent there on release in the 90s, or the early 2010s or whenever a specific show is released youre kind of just doomed to have the whole thing spoiled for you. most people arent going to find madoka or evangelion without it coming from some "you should check out this show, its SUPER FUCKED UP ':)'" type of recommendation, and personally im happiest when i can watch something without having seen anything about it prior, i might just be weird though tbh.

quickly i want to mention the OST, there are songs from this anime that have really stuck with me for all these years. "yasashii megu-nee arigatou" really sticks out in my mind as a personal favorite and kind of reminds me of parts of the [[?alien 9 (anime)]] soundtrack. the OST was done by [[?MOSAIC.WAV]] who im pretty unfamiliar with outside of seeing their album covers on a doujin site i used to frequent. most of their work has that hyper cute moe aesthetic plastered all over it (apparently they refer to themselves as akiba-pop which i think is fitting and pretty cool, normalize coming up with funny little genre names for yourself). i havent been able to find anything else from them that hits that same tone i liked from gakkou gurashis ost, but i havent looked that hard so im probably going to look into them more at some point. their sound is pretty fun overall.

the way this show handles its zombies was pretty interesting to, overall its probably nothing super unique, but where i fall off of a lot of zombie related media, this one grabbed me pretty hard, the show takes things pretty slowly and i really like that. the initial events of a zombie apocalypse are usually pretty boring to me, but seeing how characters adapt to their new world is a lot of fun. i guess thats kind of detached from the zombies themselves, i get similar feelings from the floods in stuff like [[?drifting home]] or [[?ponyo]]. i always want to live in these worlds, and theres probably some weird baggage there but OH WELL. probably something about longing to explore and be somewhat self governing without people being shit about it? im not willing to dig into any further right now :))))).

for awhile i was obsessed with zombies after watching gakkou gurashi, i remember spending a bunch of time playing heavily modded [[?minecraft]] with a bunch of zombie stuff. ive recently played [[?project zomboid]] and i know most people kind of consider that the gold standard for zombie games, but it just doesnt do it for me, something about the overhead perspective kind of takes me out of it in a way i dont really like. there are a ton of zombie related games, movies, and what have you, but as stated earlier i kind of just bounce off of most of it. i mentioned this in my note about [[twin peaks]], but i think theres something about the way eastern media handles things that grabs me a lot more than western media in general, that might just be bias on my part, but ive noticed this a lot over the years with stuff like [[?berserk]], [[?dragons dogma]], any of the [[?kings field]] or [[?dark souls]] games making me like that kind of swords and sorcerers aesthetic in a way i just hadnt prior. ive had my eye on [[?one cut of the dead]] for awhile so maybe ill watch that to confirm this isnt just a gakkou gurashi thing.