2023-10-03
i love garage a lot, its one of those games that i never really thought id get to play in full because of its status as a weird obscure japanese title that was annoying to get running on top of being so unknown that there probably wasnt any kind of guide for it thats practically mandatory for games like it. but one day it kinda just popped up on android, i was looking for something to occupy my time during lunch breaks and there it was. and after having played it about a year ago over many many lunch breaks i can tell you that this game and [[?echo (visual novel)]] double handedly made me appreciate the appeal of mobile as a platform for games slower paced games, being able to play something like this a couple times a week during lunch breaks at work really helped in me actually finishing the game, i didnt have to dedicate time that i would have otherwise spent doing anything else to play a game which is usually a death sentence for me actually playing a game. 10 minutes 30 minutes there, i got through the whole game without using a guide, now admittedly a lot of that was spent just talking to every NPC until i got new dialogue, but that would have easily ended my blind run on any other platform.

im very glad there was enough hype for this game to justify an official modern port of it, this thing has shaped my thinking so much and im sure going forward itll be hard not to slip influences from it into my work. the whole game feels like a game version of one of those old soviet stop motion cartoons, everything is drab and lifeless, but in a very odd comforting way. i want to live in this odd little cavernous world and listen to the droning music from the fishing tackle shops. theres a weird sense i get off of media like this where i feel like the creator has lived in this world their whole life. its the same with something like [[?dorohedoro]] where you start to feel like its speaking directly to you and relaying a feeling youre all too familiar with in a way that was always in the back of your head but never verbalized. this game feels the way january days feel when you cant afford to turn up the heat, theres so much to this game thats barely describable in that way.

the raw unhappiness and dissatisfaction in this world is textual and tonal in a way i really love, each character you interact with seems horribly unhappy and thats reflected in the world. every inch of this game oozes depression, its a very permanent feeling sadness thats hard to describe but you know deeply it if youve felt it. like obviously there are two or three implied or overt suicides that i can think of in the game (its been a year, ill replay it again some day and talk about it more in depth please spare me) but even beyond that, one of the characters is fascinated with a big tunnel that leads nowhere, and when you finally get to enter it it leaves you with more questions than you had before. theres a shop owner that kills his wife at one point and then leaves town? theres a trans prostitute (groundbreaking, very cool sakuba thank you) that you find the diary of after her death and its wrought with anguish. the cast slowly dwindles as you get further into the game and it has that real end of [[?kingdom hearts 358]] feel where your little world is so unlike the one you started with that it fills you with this sense of emptiness and remorse.

usually with media like this that i observe from a far for so long i end up being kind of disappointed when it turns out to not really meet my expectations. but this handily exceeded any notion i had of what this game was. im very glad i got the chance to play it blind and i really hope that it gets spread to more people this is easily one of my favorite games at this point and i really want other people to get the chance to experience it so thank god theres a modern steam port. i still want to go back and really sink my teeth into the original release as it does seem to have a slightly different feel especially when it comes to the renders. but as far as i can tell the new port is probably the way to go for new players. aside from the game itself, ive seen some brand new merch floating around, and i kinda hope i can get my hands on some of that at some point, id really love a physical copy of the OST especially.

these weird art games really get to me and im glad there was a time that they could be made easily, and it seems like going forward with platforms like ITCH theyll only become more common. some really great examples of this is something like [[?iblard laputa no kaeru machi]]  and the [[?serial experients lain PSX]] game, both of which i also played last year, highly recommended. beyond that i really want to look into [[?myst]] more, ive played it a bit, but it and [[?riven]] are still huge blind spots for me i think. [[?kowloons gate]], [[?gadget pas as future]], [[?deSPIRIA]] and [[?baroque]] are probably the next obvious leaps from garage in terms of style and tone. [[?doki oki (psx)]] looks like it might be tangentially inline with garage, but i dont know enough about it to really tell, going to keep an eye on it though. [[?pantos story]] also looks neat keeping in the adventure game category but might be awhile before i can dig into it. ive dug a bit into [[?wonder project J2]], but i want to give it and [[?wonder project J]] another shot though i do admit those are more of princess-maker type games. 