2023-12-27
this is probably the most unhinged fujimoto project to date, and thats really saying something coming hot of the heels of reading [[fire punch]] honestly. i think the condensed nature of one shots pushes that already fast paced heavy hitting story telling ive come to expect from fujimoto to its illogical extreme.

for reference this is the third fujimoto work ive read as of now (previously ive read [[?chainsaw man]] and [[fire punch]]). seeing fujimoto progress from fire punch to goodbye eri is really spectacular. i feel like the story flow is a lot tighter here and more in focus. while i do appreciate fire punch for being a little out of focus at times, it is nice to see fujimoto really drill into a singular idea. 

the way goodbye eri references other media is also really refined compared to [[fire punch]]. fujimoto is pretty well known for being pretty open faced about his influences from film, goodbye eri is surprisingly a little more subtle about that given the subject matter. fire punch fujimoto was very eager to talk to you directly about the movies he likes, whereas goodbye eri fujimoto is offhand mentioning the film he just saw and then kind of side eyeing you to see if youll take the bait.

the subject of amateur film making is relatively and makes for a perfect framing device for a something a little more experimental like this. i referred to goodbye eri as "japanese '[[?the dirties]]'" and like yeah i think i stand by that. theres something really cool about this weird "making the thing youre watching as youre watching it" aesthetic. there has to be a lot of prep work that goes into something like that, and while its true that goodbye eri doesnt actually require any genuine reactions from people, it still kind of spotlights for me like just how blurred the line between fiction and reality is for works like that.

the themes of exploitation in art in regards to the mother was really interesting to me. a big deal is made about how the main character chooses to represent the passing of his mother. most of the other characters end up seeing it as in poor taste and that really got me thinking. what part of the characters original film was in poor taste? was it simply the fact that his dead mother was in an explosion? or the fact that the main character decided to blow her up in his film? does the level of competency play a role in this?

i think about the mother comic in [[?maus]] a lot, and how difficult it must have been for art spiegelman to have included that in his work. talking directly about the death of a loved one, especially if you dont have particularly warm feelings towards them as in goodbye eri, takes a certain level of courage. i really appreciate art thats willing to honestly talk about emotions that might be frustrating to others. at the end of the day, the way yuuta chooses to express his feelings on the death of his mother are unrefined and probably not at all what he actually feels deep down. it almost feels like a deflection of his true feelings, but hes in middle school and isnt really able to articulate what this loss means to him yet.

expressing your innermost feelings through art is very difficult and its a muscle that needs to be built. i can relate quite a bit to yuuta in that regard, being very upfront about your emotions is a double edged sword. on one hand youll probably look like a complete fool, but through the frustration of having your expression be misunderstood or mocked you can start to refine and unpack what youre actually trying to say with a work. 

yuuta spends a large portion of his life trying to process the loss of eri, he pours over the footage of her for years and years. i think its really interesting that the conclusion to the story is a mirror of that unrefined expression from the beginning. perhaps there was nothing wrong with the way yuuta expressed his feelings in the first place, it just wasnt what the audience wanted out of that kind of story. or maybe the real expression was the process of going over the memories of the person you lost, and the outward expression of the explosion is yuuta putting it behind him.