2023-10-30
after reading [[dorohedoro]] i really needed something quick like inside mari. ive seen a lot more talk about this book recently and i wasnt expecting to get as hooked on it as i did. i knew a bit more about the story than i would have liked to before reading it and i do really wish i could have gotten the big reveal on my own. though the story drops enough hints that i figure i would have figured it out part way through. that all being said, im really glad i read it right when i did.

when i started reading inside mari i was going through a pretty awful dissociation episode. reading inside mari made me realize a few things about myself and how i had been living for about a year. im not sure that im totally over the hump of losing myself, but inside mari was a really nice bit of grounding that i was able to latch onto for a few days.

inside mari a super relaxed read. fairly minimal dialogue and lots of room for the visuals to breathe end up making me slip into the situations really easily and get immersed in the lives of the characters. im not all that familiar with shuzo oshimis other works, [[?aku no hana]] has been on my radar forever but ive just never really gotten around to it. i really want to explore some of his other works at some point though based on what ive seen here. the way oshimi explores the interpersonal dynamics with the characters and how mental illness is portrayed feel like this is something really personal to oshimi and i really hope that shines through in their other works.

its always really nice to read something that captures the "coming of age" time period as well as mari does. [[?girl on the shore]] comes to mind as a real stand out to me. a lot of the time we end up forgetting the emotions that we felt and the experiences we had in that late teens period of life. i think its really important to have works like inside mari that remind us what it was like, and to give the few younger people that stumble onto works like this some kind of reassurance that they arent abnormal. i read girl on the shore in high school, and it really made me feel seen, i wish that i had known about inside mari at that time as well.

normally when i read manga i tend to rush through the ending sections that contain authors notes and bonus comics. [[dorohedoro]] had really long bonus sections that are fun, but i would have liked to have read them any other time. [[alien 9 (manga)]] was kind of an exception since the series was so short and i got a lot of enjoyment out of the author notes. and im really happy to say that inside mari was another great exception.

when finishing a volume, authors like to leave you on some kind of big hook that gets you to actually pick up the next volume. and inside mari is certainly the same, but as i got to the end of a lot of these volumes and eagerly started at the next volume i would slow down. the authors notes here are really special, and id honestly read a whole book of just these. i put a lot of stock in authentic, honest art and oshimi does this brilliantly. some of these afterwords are really challenging and in depth on who oshimi is as a person, and it really goes hand in hand with the work itself.

the way mari comes into her own by the end of the mangas run perfectly mirrors the way oshimi describes his own understanding of himself. early on he recounts that he wishes he could have been born and raised as a girl. and by the end of it all hes remarking that he no longer holds the same sentiment, how he found the woman inside of him, and then found the man inside of her. its a beautiful send off to the series and really makes me feel like mari was oshimis way of processing his own feelings the way embodying komori helps mari. 