2024-02-27
i honestly wasnt really expecting to watch this so soon after it released, but i ended up feeling bored one night and put it on. i ended up getting pretty sucked into it. i usually dont go for this kind of setting, but compelling drama and speedy pace really carried me through.

the films three and a half hours long, and personally i really didnt feel it at all. there are so many moving parts at play here that i ended up losing track of the time. i know thats not really that common of a sentiment, and im sure that it was probably more of a problem if you were watching it in real time in a theater. the same thing happened to me when i watched [[?taxi driver]], so this might just be a scorsese thing to be honest. either way, i was really sucked into the story and the characters and im really happy about that.

the historical aspect of killers of the flower moon is really interesting to me. i grew up for a bit near a reservation when i was a kid. i interacted a lot with other kids and people who lived there, so i had some baseline knowledge of traditions, general structures, and problems that persist in communities like this. but even without that, the film almost feels like a crash course in a lot of regards. i could see something like this being shown in history classes the same way [[?rabbit proof fence]] was shown when i was in school.

im really curious about the historical accuracy of the film. as i was watching i was kind of under the assumption that a lot of this was springfield-ized. i live in canada and am most familiar with the cree, so i was totally unfamiliar with the osage. i had figured that they had created a bit of a melting pot of different events and people to tell an overarching story, rather than something specific. so it was really intriguing on a few levels to learn that the film is apparently mostly true to life.

of course its kind of cool that something like this can open the doorway to articles, videos, and lessons that dig a bit deeper into what seems like a much wider story. that sort of door opening seems really important for keeping history fresh in our minds. but its also interesting to me that i was so quick to assume that the events of the story were true in a story telling way, and not true in a chronicling way if that makes sense.

a story like this is really difficult to grapple with unless you abstract it away in your mind as simply a story. this was and is a part of reality for a lot of people. i feel like a lot of us, myself included, become a bit overexposed and blunted to the harshness of events like this over time. when i was growing up, a lot of time was dedicated in school to discussions of things like residential schools and the holocaust.

its easy to let all of that difficult information which will kind of just ruin you if you think about too long wash over you. you stop viewing these things as real, or as horrifying as they are. its important for us as individuals to put in the admittedly minimal effort to keep those things real in our heads. i knew nothing going into killers of the flower moon, and i let its story hook me, but wash over the part of my brain that it needed to hit. im looking forward to watching it again and letting it in the way it deserves.