2023-09-24
i initially watched madoka in high school. at the time i was really slow to watch things, it probably took me a month or two to get through the 12 episode series, whereas just recently i did a rewatch (in preparation for the upcoming movie thing???) and i got through the whole thing in about a night. this is kind of odd since what seemed like really big weighty build ups to things kinda just happen? in my memory we spend SO much more time with mami, but in reality shes gone pretty quick. maybe ill feel different after rewatching rebellion which i havent done yet, but this second viewing was a TOTALLY new experience to my surprise.

having watched it in high school was probably a good thing, it is a little weird having rewatched it now. not to say that it doesnt hold up or that the show isnt worth watching, it certainly is. but viewing it now post [[?made in abyss]], post [[?chainsaw man]], post having learned wtf a denpa is and getting a lil more acquainted with the visual novel space, it is a little less impactful to me personally. that all being said, it is a lot easier to appreciate what the show is doing, seeing familiar faces in the after credits art showcase, seeing those nitro+ tropes, its all really intriguing. about a year ago i gave [[?sekai oni]] and [[?magical girl site]] a quick shake, and while i bounced off them pretty quick at the time, i feel like no having rewatched madoka i want to get a little more of that madoka-likes context.

part of me is really curious to see the alternate universe where madoka releases as a visual novel, it has that vibe to it for obvious reasons and if they didnt know any better im sure your average VN fanatic would assume this was an adaptation of a VN. small but memorable cast of characters, low budget feel at times, time travel shit. all the pillars are there in my opinion. maybe ill check out some of the actual madoka games someday, im sure at least one of them has to have a visual novel aspect.

madoka really did change the face of magical girls in a lot of ways. obviously there are """""rip-offs""""" like [[?magical girl site]] (really though, from what i can tell the two are very dissimilar and reach very different crowds imo, its cool to have more takes on a cool thing hoenstly), and a show like [[wonder egg priority]] almost feels like direct response to madoka in its much more overt messaging. madoka pays a lot of lip service to the idea that a characters wish reflects the kind of magical girl theyre turned into, but its super subtle and im not really sure youd be able to tell if a rat didnt outright say it in one of the episodes, but maybe thats for the best? idk personal preference, wonder egg is my preferred mahou shoujo suffer quest if im being perfectly honest.

#anime