2023-10-03
the games pretty basic, but in that simplicity i think it really sets an identity for itself. ive played a lot of [[?factorio]]-likes, but this is really the first one that comes to mind when i think of entry level factory builders that still maintain that high level of quality. i get sucked into this game really easily and that really comes down to its simple to understand mechanics and its insane spectacle ceiling. the game is deceptively simple, it strips factorio down to its basic components and doesnt really worry about crafting or perfect building placement, but the ceiling for efficiency is massive, i often find myself making huge buses just to squeeze that little bit of speed out of my belts despite not really needing to.

beyond the building itself, i think the combat is really interesting. [[?factorio]] doesnt really feel like an RTS even though at times you could probably catagorize it as such. but mindustry just IS an RTS through and through. at some point i really want to try one of those big multiplayer matches with a bunch of people on each team, team RTS is always kind of a bore to me, but adding a huge focus on shared resources is really appealing to me. im not the best at the actual moment to moment combat of RTS games, and i usually end up falling back to meme strats to just have a bit of fun with it. but having another teammate focused squarely on attack and defense while i create resource funnels is super appealing. i can see something like that really feeling like a competitive puzzle game if that makes sense. but unfortunately i havent really dipped my toes into the multiplayer at all, perhaps someday ill give it a shot. im pretty sure theres a PVE multiplayer mode, and thats usually a safer bet for getting some of my friends to play.

#games #factory 