2024-02-12
i started watching this not long ago and just finished it. i have pretty mixed feeling on the experience overall. not because the body of the show is mixed, far from it. but i have a hunch that they just didnt have the time they needed to really stick the ending they were going for. that being said i would whole heatedly recommend the show. if its any help at all, id say that if i had to go back in time i would have personally told myself to stop at 4x10 or 4x12. the final episode really does muddy the water for me, and i feel like it could have easily been done away with entirely.

ill get to my thoughts on the ending later but for right now i want to express what i really loved about the show. i do think the show takes a lot of thematic and tonal shifts as it goes on and theres a lot to think about in its 4 season run. 

firstly i want to get this out of the way, the way the show changes its aesthetic components, to the point of almost slipping into different mediums, is really well done. episode 3x4 (the episode thats edited to look like one seamless take) comes to mind, while its not as overt of a shift as some other episodes, the one shot gimmick really does change the feel. the amount of stress and anxiety this gives off is really impressive.

episode 2x4 is the obvious example of the show changing its format to convey a part of its characters that would have been difficult to otherwise. i really love the concept of a character being trapped in a totally different show for an episode, mr robot doesnt really take it as far as i personally would like. the games given away a bit too early, if you really want to take this to its logical extreme it would have been really cool to have convinced the audience that they really are watching a different show. i want to feel like theres a mistake, like the torrent i downloaded actually contained an episode of alf, play that shit out for like 20 minutes before pulling the rug. i understand that thats kind of not in the cards when youre a big production, maybe this is just a pipe dream of mine.

my personal favorite episode in terms of aesthetic changes is 4x7. using the format of a multi-act stage play is brilliant for such a character driven episode. pulling away all the editing tricks and cinematic short hand really lets maleks performance breathe in a way i dont think a flash back could have. we get to sit with this character as he comes to such a harsh realization. its absolutely lovely.

as with the previously mentions sitcom episode i do think that this concept could have been pushed further. im a big fan of medium shifts and its kind of frustrating to me when a director shows me the concept of something amazing, and puts in the effort, but for whatever reason pulls back. actually shifting medium is a big risk, but i want to see it happen, i want a show like this to deliver on its promise to me. im sure theres an alternate universe where money, and therefore viewer retention, arent factors. and within that world theres a cut of episode 4x7 of mr robot inexplicably filmed in a theatre in one take in front of an audience, with performance quirks and set design to match.

all that being said, episode 4x10 is the best episode of the show. its the episode i wrote. my ghost possessed the entire mr robot production team and gave my self insert character (darlene) a whole lesbian road trip, wish fulfillment, dale cooper but a woman, airport, parting of ways episode. and then my ghost forced them to put 2 of my favorite side characters and fucking carly rae jepsen climax into the episode. the only thing that could have made this better is if whiterose's macguffin machine actually worked and brought trenton and mobley back to life and then they kissed. i wrote this episode, this was written expressly for me. this is the only episode ill be rewatching.

on the note of the lesbian episode, i want to briefly mention the queer representation in the show as a queer is ought to do or whatever. im really curious about the make up of the shows production staff because it does a few things that youd only really think to do if you were queer, or knew enough queer people to know to put john carpenters "the thing" in your trans womans backstory. most of its pretty unremarkable, and truthfully im only really mentioning it because the show talks about it so often. i guess im just kind of glad to see a decent queer "villain" character who isnt treated like shit by the plot a la [[?silence of the lambs]].

speaking of whiterose, its probably time to talk about the ending. i get the feeling that the writers didnt really know what to do with the large hadron collider sized chekhovs gun they set up at the start of season 3. the entirety of the show has allusions to time travel and fixing past mistakes. for awhile i was sure that the show was leading up to some digibro time fuckery (if you know you know). but then the whole thing kind of just fizzles at the end. it almost feels like they werent picked up for the 5th season they wanted, or they just didnt have the budget to finish what they had already set up the season prior? its kind of pointless to speculate, but if i ever get the chance id love to ask sam esmail about it.

regardless of what was or wasnt planned, the ending that we do get kind of just feels like an afterthought, id be interested to see how easily you could cut out any mention of whiteroses secret project or her ulterior REAL motives and just left off at episode 4x10, the world is saved, everyone goes their separate ways, thats it. but we get 3 more episodes to think about here. i do really like 4x11 and 4x12. if the show had ended at 4x12, im sure a lot of people wouldnt have been happy, but i like that sort of weird rug pull ending, [[?evangelion|evangelions]] original ending comes to mind in that regard. there are a lot of odd readings that could come from ending there, but of course theres still 4x13.

episode 4x13 of mr robot is the episode where the show sits you down and just talks about the entire time, in my opinion it kind of bulldozes over any rewatch value the show might have gotten by just showing you ever shot of elliot breaking the fourth wall. you dont have to spend a whole episode explaining that the elliot we were following wasnt the real elliot, you can just show us that. stop explaining everything and give me some meat to chew on. by talking less it could have said more. the things the inner krista is saying could have been fun theorizing points for the fans to mull over forever.

i get really tired of this idea that a show has to play its whole hand and explain itself away into nothing. its this thinking that breeds stuff like plot summary videos on youtube that add nothing to the conversation. it turns works of art into solidified bullet points that you dont get to stray from. THIS is what happened in the show, and to state otherwise, to write a fanfic, or theory craft, or find your own personal meaning in a work, to do any of those things is now against the creators singular vision or whatever. 

luckily for us, we live in a subjective reality where there are no rules and the author has already died, so i want to take a minute and go over some of the readings i came up with, in the form of theories, immediately after watching episode 4x12. 4x13 never happened, and it cant affect the show that exists in my head.

# cool world theory
in 4x12 theres this interesting element where elliot finds happy elliots secret drawings of the events of the show. i really like the idea of a story spinning so far out of control that it takes over its artist life. perhaps the death of happy elliot at the end of the episode could represent a creator becoming consumed by their work. perhaps it could be an artist leaving behind the reliability of their 9 to 5, putting them on extremely shaky ground and likely eroding their life.

i read this as the creative being consumed entirely by their creation that they lose focus of who they even were.
# enemy theory
one of my favorite films is 2013s [[?enemy]] staring my husband, jake gyllenhaal. a popular theory for the film is that the events take place within a characters head as 2 competing versions of himself battle for control. this is effectively what mr robot, the show, ends up going with, but i figured for the sake of posterity id still list it here as it was one of the connections i had floating around in my brain before 4x13 just flat out said it was enemy.

you could, however, take this further. if 4x13 doesnt happen, we have a lot more room to play with after all. perhaps the events of the show are some delusion created by elliot. lets suppose that the world we see in 4x11 and 4x12 was the real world. perhaps some of the events of the show did happen, maybe the real elliot was abused by his father. 

in 4x11 happy elliot alludes that angelas father has a drinking problem, and apparently its bad enough that he suspects somethings up after seeing bloodied tissues. no one in his life is willing to acknowledge the dysfunction and therefore elliot concocts a life of misery in his head to cope and make his own reality seem more normal. 4x12 then could be read as him snapping and becoming disillusioned with his life.

i do admit that this theory does extrapolate a lot from very little. but i find this idea fascinating. i love works like [[?enemy]] or [[?im thinking of ending things]] that can be read as entirely metaphorical, visual representations of some invisible characters thought process. 
# heaven theory
this ones a bit weird, and it does help if that first 10 minutes of 4x13 is taken into account. hear me out on this one though. theres this idea in certain sects of christianity that state that heaven can only exist if everyone there is free of sin. sin in this case acts like a virus i guess? thats my understanding of it anyways. the show is steeped in religious imagery so while i do think this is an oddball theory, i dont think its totally out of the question.

the world in 4X11 and 4X12 is almost too perfect. its a paradise, everyone is as they were meant to be. i believe that this can be read as mr robots interpretation of heaven. when elliot shows up, its a violent anomaly, and immediately he begins introducing hurt, or in this case sin, into this perfect world. the death of happy elliot mirrors on some level the story of cain and able. and the way the misfortune cascades can be seen as the propagation of sin. when my wife dressed as a police officer stops elliot, it quickly escalates and destroys the rest of the world in 4x13.

again, this is a very out of left field theory, but its something i was thinking about while watching.
# macguffin truther theory
this last thought assumes that the device whiterose was working on was real, and actually worked. and theres a few ways that you could read that.

firstly, we dont actually see what the outside world is like after elliot wakes up in the hospital, it could have been totally different. darlene doesnt really give any indication of this, but i feel like its possible that the device did go off, and we just never hear about it because either the change was just minor enough to not come up in that instant, or no one arounds suspects that it worked because this new world is all theyve ever known.

the second idea i had, and the one i like more, is that the device worked, and a new alternate universe was created. however we just dont know about it because we as an audience only get to see the world that was left behind. if you know me at all, you might know that this is an idea im particularly obsessed with, i love the idea of this ultimate deus ex machina plot device having no effect on the world were following, but does in some other story we dont get to see. ive never seen that really executed in a piece of media, and i think its a lot of fun to map it onto a work like this. 



beyond any of that, the last thing i really want to talk about is how the show seems really quick to finger point to individuals, and kind of just says "if we robin hood this group of 100 men our world will be saved". this is another thing that leads me to believe that the show staff was planning on a 5th season. they had to get that scene of all the worlds wealth getting redistributed in there, and it just kinda felt half hearted to me. 

the show had already shown us in the first two seasons that it takes a lot more than economic terrorism to fix the world. within the void of the 5/9 attack, things kind of just went back to the way they were, elliot starts talking about undoing the attack, and by the end we get what amounts a second 5/9. im not sure i buy that the world would have been saved after something like this. its a nice, easy to swallow fantasy for the end of your anarchism power fantasy show, but its just not meaty enough to really convince me.

of course i dont really know much about economics, or politics in general for that matter. but personally i think that the overarching mechanisms need solving more than the surface level economics. i wouldnt be surprised if E coin went on hold, or the inflation just leveled out so that none of it mattered and $10000 became the real world equivilant of $1 or something. id be really curious to see an actual economist chart out what how something like this would play out. maybe something like this would work out and im just not smart in the way that would let me see that. who knows.

regardless of any of my admittedly minor gripes with the show, i really enjoyed my time with it. i feel like a lot of the time we mistake hindsight for our in the moment experience of a piece of art. i dont want my words on a something to come off as cinema sins-esque. its fun to poke at a show and talk about the things you wish were different about it, or what you were disappointed by. but when youre along for the ride, and the show has you hooked in that "one more episode" mindset, plot holes and nitpicks dont exist. mr robot was a fun ride.