2023-10-03
i had been kind of planning on watching this for a fair while after one of my friends was really excited about it, i had seen the tail end of it as a kid and thought the movie scene was really funny. but the thing that pushed me over the edge was a red letter media video being released on the film the other day and i dont like watching any level of spoilers for things i plan on watching, it kind of taints the experience for me in a way and makes me fear missing how i could have felt with a blind viewing (for reference im watching [[?flip flappers]] at the current time off of the name, a vague memory of digi or arkada mentioning it?? and like one recommendation on the [[wonder egg priority]] MAL page. very exciting blind watch). the RLM video itself was pretty fun, macaulay culkin is always a treat, and getting a little taste of [[?pee-wees big holiday]] made me slightly interested, but ill probably wait on that for awhile.

uh full disclosure, im vaguely aware of paul reubens arrest? im choosing not to dig too deep into that because i just had a really good time with a nice movie and i dont really feel like immediately dragging that experience through the mud :)))))). coool!

the one thing that kind of felt off to me about the RLM video was the fact that aside from one mention of john waters in relation to the new pee-wee film, there was like no mention of how quintessentially queer this stupid ass movie is. maybe its just my weird little rainbow poisoned brain, but i feel like a queer reading of this film is kind of obvious? at multiple points in the film people are just overtly cold or cruel to pee-wee and its always the people you would expect. all his neighbors love him, hes a star customer at the oddball magic shop and the bike shop, its only when he leaves the place where everyone knows him that he starts to face hostility.

pee-wee is dressed in drag as a clever disguise but just kinda acts like its a regular occurance for him? (i also feel like theres some subtextual sexual tension between pee-wee and the escaped convict, but thats 100% just a me thing i think?) the convicts crime is incredibly minor and played as a joke which could mirror some level of anti-queer sentiment being just as silly, might be digging too deep on that one. at a trucker bar,the only person there wholl look at pee-wee is the disillusioned waitress, everyone else is scared of him the moment he opens his silly lil mouth. hes laughed out of the alamo, the only time we see him interacting positively with the texans is when hes directly donning their culture, enough to totally mask who he is at times. the only time the police and hollywood accept him is after he pulls some out of left field heroic act and even then they really only care the core of his story and totally strip his personality and charm out of their movie adaptation at the end of the film (this is LITERALLY queer erasure, smh). the bikers are apprehensive at first, but fully embrace him after he proves himself, and you get the sense this is just how they treat people generally. and his total avoidance of dotties is also kind of telling, i was worried that the film would dash all my hopes and have pee-wee accept her at the end of the film, but it really surprised me in that regard.

i know im probably digging into this a little too hard, and a general message of oddball outcast accept is easier to come to. but it wouldnt be queer if you didnt have to dig a little lets be honest. this really does feel at times like one of those subtextually queer dog whistle movies youd see a lot back then, [[?nightmare on elm street 2]] and [[?the muppets]] come to mind as films that have a largely queer production staff slipping little pieces of themselves into the text. this movie is raw clown shit and clown shit always lends itself really well to queer readings, sorry not sorry.

aside from that, the movie itself is just a joy to watch, a lot of really great jokes both overt and subtle. pee-wee himself is a great subtle comedy vehicle i think, the way he says things is highly quotable and often times all it took was him saying something in a slightly different way to get some of the biggest laughs of the film out me. the plots very barebones obviously, and normally i have a problem with that with comedies, [[?eurotrip]] comes to mind for me as something thats trying to be this style of set piece comedy, but the set pieces REALLY need to work to carry such a rickety plot (personally i think [[?freddy got fingered]] is an example of this being done in a way that i like, the thin plot really adds to the films tone for me). maybe this is an western thing more, this is probably comparing apples and oranges, but [[?in bruges]] really comes to mind as the opposite, that movies heavy plot really lending itself well its british sense of humour. either way with how goofy pee-wee is, i think its fitting to throw him up against a lot of different settings and characters, makes things move so much faster so even if you arent really jibbing with the old man in the train car bit, the alamo bit is right around the corner. in that way i can really see this being a great "tradition movie", something your family watches in correlation with some holiday or event, as long as you can get down with pee-wee you can get down with at least one set piece in this film imo.

:0) HjÖnK

#movies 