2023-09-25
im writing this right tf now because i played this semi recently and i know im going to forget it super quick. worth note i havent played the second game yet, and it does look better in a lot of regards, but for now this is all i have to go off of.

this game really does have that early indie twang to it, stuff scales weird, everything looks kind of off, there really isnt that much to the game, if it were released today as is i dont think many people would notice, releasing in 2013 is probably the one big thing that saved it. and honestly im glad that it did get that chance to shine because while i may not have jibed with it 100%, it did really leave me feeling like there was an amazing game somewhere inside of it. maybe the sequel is that, maybe not. the thing i really look for from roguelikes is variety, i dont really care if everything is super fair or balanced, i just want to have a unique feeling every time i pick the game up. [[?gzdoom]] with a couple of mods pulls this off really well, and the bit ive played of [[?binding of isaac]] does too. they have that kind of MTG cube draft level of uniqueness to each run that i really like, and for me that just kinda wasnt there with rogue legacy, though im sure this is a lot of peoples favorite outing in the genre.

the amount of parameters and modifiers your character can have is really important, and while rogue legacy does have a lot of them, most of them dont really feel like much of anything. and its kind of a shame that the start of a run is nearly identical to the end of a run if that makes sense? gaining new modifiers as you go is like half the fun of a game like isaac for me and its just kind of missing here. again this isnt me saying the game itself is bad, it just wasnt my thing.

at some point i do want to design a roguelike proper. the idea of strange combinations i as a developer couldnt have possibly predicted is really intriguing to me, and a game like this may not hold much value to me on its own, but it does fill my head with little dancing variables and javascript objects, its the kind of game that makes me invision a hypothetical game i like more, and that does hold value to me on some level.

#games #roguelike #metroidvania 