2023-11-07
i played through rusted moss recently on a whim and its quickly become a favorite of mine. everything about this game is so clearly geared specifically for me its insane. the way the world is constructed, excellent movement mechanics, the open nature of its exploration and its beautiful characters and story. it all wraps together into something that i was surprisingly hooked to despite having a really hard time finishing games.

im a pretty big fan of the post apocalyptic natural regrowth look, recently [[?heavenly delusion]] really grabbed me in a similar way. rusted moss has this aesthetic nailed really well. metals are covered in intricate detailing. vegetation and foliage moves naturally and looks soft. i want to live in this weird little mossy world so bad it hurts. i really want more games with this vibe, i want to explore this setting in 3d and see all of its weird nooks and crannies. i havent really looked into any of the steam workshop maps yet, but im really looking forward to it, i want so much more of this world.

one of the big things on display here is the games movement. even early on, the umihara styled grapple hook is enough to make movement and absolute dream. of course rusted moss feels a lot smoother than [[?umihara kawase (series)]] due to the mouse aiming, and id be really interested to see umihara levels built in the rusted moss engine just to compare the grapple hook a bit better. 

the inclusion of rocket jumping was a wonderful surprise. i honestly wasnt expecting much when i first acquired the rocket launcher, but it quickly surpassed my expectations. being able to combine it with abilities like the fae jump made traversal this fun puzzle, and often my ability to pull off awkward jumps was rewarded with access to areas early. i ended up using the rocket launcher for much of the game simply due to its increased mobility. however later on (especially in the final climbing challenge) i ended up really liking the shotguns ability to propel me in the air. that final challenge is really the peak of the game for me personally, i love one shot climbing challenges, and my only real gripe with them is that id like to take my time a little more. maybe the workshop content will scratch that itch of wanting harder climbs that dont have a time limit. 

the movement really opens up the possibility for sequence breaking and the game really rewards that in my experience. at multiple points in the game, even very early on, the game will let you get into very difficult areas like the laboratory and let you get a glimpse of whats to come, theres a great section with no save points in the lab thats extremely dangerous and it feels so daunting and insane, but you can clearly see how you could get through it if you were just little more skilled with your movement. very little is gate kept based solely on the games progression and a lot of it just comes down to your mastery of the mechanics.

this game feels like an open world despite the fact that i dont think most people would classify it as such, id be curious to watch someone elses progression in the game and compare it to my own as i feel like theyd be totally different. i often found myself up against bosses that were way above my current power level, but i was almost always able to get through them through trial and error, and the ones i wasnt able to beat i could at least see that i did technically have all the tools to be able to, just not the skill. i really want to see a low% all bosses run of this game because im sure you get get through the whole thing with the starting weapon and the grapple hook if you were good enough at the game.

the story of rusted moss is an absolute joy as well, its kind of uncommon that i stick around for the story in games that im really enjoying the gameplay of, recently my friend played [[?hotline miami]] and i quickly realized that i didnt know anything about the story because i skipped through almost all of the dialogue. hotline miamis gameplay was just too much fun for me to really engage in what was happening on a plot level. rusted moss feels different to me though, in a way i kind of feel like its heavy focus on exploration makes me seek out the story more especially since things like the lore stones are considered collectibles.

it helps too that the characters in rusted moss are really interesting. these characters are multifaceted, its both incredibly clear and incredibly difficult to discern what a character is thinking and why. at multiple points throughout the narrative i was questioning the motivations of characters, their alignments, how i even felt about them. i feel for a character like fern so much while also being absolutely terrified of them. through playing this game and coming to understand its characters i ended up questioning myself and the things i believed about the world. it may seem kind of over dramatic to think about a game this way, but i think thats one of the things i like seeing in a game. the ability to focus a lens on myself and learn more about who i am as i learn about a character speaks to a works introspective nature in my opinion, and im really glad rusted moss gave me that.