2023-10-23
i ended up watching up to episode 4 last night, and based on what ive seen im not sure im really that interested in continuing. for now im going to drop this, but i still want to talk about what was there.

im a big fan of stories like this, [[?made in abyss]], [[?promised neverland]]. and [[?heavenly delusion]] are some of my absolute favorites. that blend of coming of age and dark mystery really gets me. shinsekai yori has a lot of the same elements that immediately grabbed me in the other series i mentioned. the world is filled with interesting creatures like in made in abyss, the society is bizarre and not all that it first appears as in promised neverland, and it plays with your expectations of time like in heavenly delusion. shinsekai yoris execution of these elements is where it kind of fell apart for me.

im interested in the world, its systems and history. but it plays its hand a little too early and just exposition dumps at me for half an episode. i was curious about the school board and the disappearances and so on, but then immediately a little bug fella dashes all of that in favor of just telling me whats up. what im left with is what happens to the cast of characters and one or two mysteries that im pretty sure i already know the answers to if i think about it for a minute. 

something like [[?heavenly delusion]] or [[dorohedoro]] paces its mysteries wonderfully, any time you get an answer to something it opens 5 more doors for you to peer through. heavenly delusion doesnt put its big cards on the table until the very end of season 1 (unless youre really paying attention and theorizing as you go). there are a lot of times in series like these that one shot or a character saying one thing can re-contextualize everything. sometimes my speculation is correct and i feel like a genius, and other times my speculation is dead wrong and i praise the author for being able to bait and switch me in such a rewarding way. either way theres a conversation happening between me and the author. its the same feeling as working with someone on a project and both of you are so on the same page that you get in each others heads and become totally synced. shinsekai yori doesnt have this feeling for me.

its very quick to throw any semblance of intrigue away for no real reason. the first 2 episodes have a heavy focus on kids that end up going missing and the show really wants you to know its because they were a silly failgirl or they were some kind of rules breaker. and then an episode later we get told explicitly by a worm what we already know, these kids are abrasions to the orderly system. it could have been interesting if it wasnt already explicitly told to us by the voice over narration and multiple lines of dialogue. these kids has no real immediate affect on the characters actions, no ones asking where failgirl is, this would have been a huge event in any other school. part of me wonders if thats setting up some kind of memory erasure plot point, but if that were the case why wasnt their disappearances conveyed subtly with visuals rather than just telling us it happened? im not willing to sit through all 25 episodes to see if this somehow pays off given the fact that i dont think this show is smart enough to subvert its own anime tropes that hard.

i wouldnt be surprised if theres a lot to love about this show, a lot of people seem to like it. but when your episode count is this high and is doing nothing for me 4 episodes in, im worried that either the show slows down a lot throughout or it just does too much and becomes bloated.

by episode 2 of [[?heavenly delusion]] i was hooked, by episode 4 it had given me enough plot threads and mental connections that my mind was already connecting dots. [[?made in abyss]] throws the viewer right into its strange world by the start of episode 4 and it continues to build steam all the way through the first season, only slowing to give us a breather and spend some more time with major locations. in [[?promised neverland]], 4 episodes feel like 8 in the best way possible, things progress so quickly, and while a lot of the things the show sets up have fairly quick and easy payoffs, its a lot more focused on ramping tension and does so beautifully. 

when i first watched [[?made in abyss]], [[?promised neverland]], and [[?heavenly delusion]] i ended up staying awake way longer than i should have and getting through the shows in a night or two each. i was incredibly apprehensive about heavenly delusion, but by the time i finished episode 2 i was sucked in and it carried me all the way through to 4 in the morning. by the time i was done with 4 episodes of shinsekai yori, it was midnight and i had no attachment to what was happening in the plot. maybe at some point ill give this another shot, but as of right now its 25 episodes of questionably interesting material vs promised neverland/heavenly delusions 12 episodes of gripping content that would have been worth it for those first episodes alone even if it had dropped in quality half way through.