2024-03-18
i really enjoy tokusatsu. it can be kind of goofy sometimes, but i think that just makes it all the more impressive when a film like [[?gamera the guardian of the universe]] or [[?shin godzilla]] shows up. ive heard a lot of really good things about ssss gridman in the past, recently one of my friends was talking about it and so i decided to give it a shot.

im certainly not the most knowledgeable of the original [[?hyper agent gridman]], but im relatively familiar with ultraman, as well as some of the staffs other work. part of the reason i was interested in ssss gridman in the first place was my love of the JP animator expo and the [[?boys invent great hero]] short. im always interested in JP expo related projects, and gridman really delivers. as with most gainax legacy projects, ssss gridman is pretty heavy on the aeshtetic references, and having some level of understanding of surrounding material is always super rewarding.

ssss gridman is a lot more than its history though. im sure a lot of stuff here will come off as annoying or cheap to some people. but honestly i wouldnt have it any other way. reuse of animation and somewhat simplistic plots are kind of just a given with shows like this. in my opinion it kind of adds to the experience. trigger really caught me off guard with this one.

the plot and characters never get too terribly deep. but what is there is really interesting. the unraveling mystery really kept me invested, even if the characters kind of just get handed answers sometimes. though the fun visuals on the exposition dump train ride kind of make up for it in my book. sometimes its kind of nice to have something a little lighter, and i can appreciate it for having a handful of darker elements without going full [[?evangelion]] as some shows tend to do. i was watching [[?selector infected wixoss]] right before this, and i feel the same way about that show. i really enjoy complex, dark characters because im a silly edge girl at heart, but id be lying if i said this more lax tone isnt kind of refreshing.

despite not being too deep textually, i think subtextually and contextually gridman has a lot to say. at times it kind of does feel like a more to the point [[?evangelion]] funnily enough. the theme of living in the real world and not getting sucked into escapism is pretty common in anime all things considered. but ssss gridman is a little bit softer with its execution, a little more kind to its supposed audience stand in, akane.

gridman really concerns itself with the idea of not letting media like tokusatsu lose its meaning. the fact that this is a gridman show of all things is really interesting to me in that regard. gridman is exactly the kind of obscure thing that someone might get overly obsessed with and claim as their own, twisting it into their own little world. when the author is dead, its easy enough to ad hoc your thoughts into a work if that makes sense.

i quite enjoyed my time with ssss gridman, i feel like i often pass on shows like this because of their run time, but 12 episodes is basically a perfect length for me. at some point ill definitely give [[?ssss dynazenon]] a go.