2024-03-04
i do be talking about fucking youtube videos huh? so i came across this video by "board and savior", hes relatively small so ive never heard of this guy. im not particularly into star wars, however this video was really interesting to me for a few reasons.

the video is a proposal for a new format to play one of the many star wars phyiscal games, "star wars rebellion". the games a pretty succinct and simplified model of an intergalactic war within the star wars universe. this kind of board game is pretty common, you could probably say its an expanded version of "risk". the games simplified nature means that battles are relatively brief, and thats where the proposal comes in. the idea is to supplement the combat phase with yet another, more specific, star wars game.

the real beauty about this, and one of the reasons this might only be possible with star wars, is that theres practically a star wars game for any aspect of the series you can think of. of course theres lots of on the ground strategy games, but theres also dog fight simulators, large scale war simulators. there are so many granular simulacrum of star wars in games, physical or otherwise.

specifically in this videos case, "board and savior" has replaced the combat portion of star wars rebellion with 2 games. a warhammer style miniatures war game for ground combat, and an aerial miniatures war game for air combat. however beyond that, combat in the aerial war game is replaced with a pretty in depth dog fighting game. the end result is 4 separate games that all kind of rely on each other. now granted he doesnt demonstrate this homebrewed game being actually played, but the idea is there.

immediately im struck by how much this just sounds like a board game version of what EVE online was trying to do but never did. im kind of in love with the idea of different games interacting with each other, and this is like a weird janky version of that. though thats not to say EVE was much better in its implementation from the sounds of it.

i wouldnt be surprised if this isnt already kind of a thing in warhammer circles. ive seen multiple games being played simultaneously at conventions for example, and im sure they often have some kind of team based map conquest mechanic. playing something like this with a large group of people is probably the only way to really actually make this work. given how long individual encounters would be, it would be insane to just play it straight and not make it some kind of larger group activity.

notice also that im saying "something LIKE this". i dont personally think this is playable outside of novelty matches that probably wouldnt last too long. of course its kind of cool that this is just an unintended bit of synergy between 4 separate games. the real beauty of physical games to me is that they turn players into game modders without them really even realizing it. homebrewed formats like this or dandan, even things like simple uno or "go fish" house rules. its all a form of modding that isnt really possible in the same way with video games. its trivial to just honor rule in a new game piece or a replacement for an entire game system.

awhile ago i was made aware of a piece of software known as [[? archipelago]] and it kinda shocked me. its a game randomizer, the likes of which you might be familiar with if youre into video games, and especially retro games. however this is a multi game randomizer that randomizes across several games simultaneously. a key for your zelda game might be unlocked in the indie roguelike your friend is playing or some such. to me, this "star wars megagame" is kind of like that.

one battle in this game is decided by an entire play session of this other game. in theory you could really do this with any game. as long as everyones on the same page about what effects what, you can kind of just go nutty house ruling in system that transfer resources from one game session into another, or replacing whole chunks of games with other games. 

theres part of me that loves the idea of a whole massive insane game that replicates thie "star wars megagames" troop deployment to ground/air combat. complete with apartment consuming spacial management, and insane time sink. but i kind of like the rag tag nature of this, theres something really cool about the fact that its 4 separate games, linked only by the IP on the box. im sure it exists in some form, but i could really see supplemental games that actively rely on you owning other games being released by companies that have a bunch of smaller games already, again warhammer comes to mind as the obvious candidate, releasing official rules (if they dont exist already, i dont know) for multi battle campaigns might be really cool.

the video board and savior released is getting a decent amount of attention, i would not be surprised in the slightest if one of those tabletop gaming youtube channels just went all in on this idea. if you get enough people together and assign each of them a fleet or a some equivalent depending on the game, it could make for a really interesting video series. it would effectively simulate an entire battle instead of just skirmishes. it might sound kind of stupid, and im usually not into DnD style youtubers, but the appeal of trained roleplay actors carry out some grand campaign is not lost on me.

i dont know, perhaps everything ive said here is just complete rubbish, and all the things ive proposed are already real somewhere and im just not aware of it in my little card game corner. but i wanted to write about this stupid fucking star wars video i saw because it really got me thinking.