2024-01-31
i read this relatively recently. im a big fan of tsukushis other work, [[?made in abyss]] despite some of its flaws. made in abyss quickly became a very important work to me and i really admire its ability to speak to me on such a personal level. going into star strings yori i wasnt really expecting that same level of engagement, nanachis whole character arc in made in abyss is pretty uniquely geared towards my specific brand of chemical imbalances. while yori doesnt really hit that note i was still quite surprised by how hard it hit me.

the way tsukushi uses unreal circumstances to convey very real stories and emotions is quite impressive to me. themes of loneliness and despair can be really hard to quantify and put onto paper. reading about realistic isolation never really conveys how it feels to be isolated. its within fiction that we can really explore the feeling behind emotion, and i think thats something tsukushi does quite well. despite this character living in a world completely unlike my own, experiencing things i will never experience one to one, i find it really easy to relate to them. ive lived this story before, most of us have.

of course one of the main themes of tsukushis work is despair and grief. it might be totally overkill a lot of the time and a little discomforting given the types of characters he usually chooses to depict, however i do kind of appreciate his dedication to misery. i feel like a lot of authors are scared to hurt their characters, especially child characters. this is of course very understandable, no one really wants to see a child get hurt after all.

i think on some level the commitment to protection ends shutting us off from reality, it limits our ability to experience the full brunt of the human experience. children get hurt, they grieve, get flung into absolute despair. to deny that is to deny their experiences. its easy to forget that we were all children at one point and we start to take the experiences of children as well as our own less seriously. now this is not to say that tsukushi is perfect in his depiction of hurt, you kinda get an uneasy feeling from his writing here and there. but what i am saying is that im glad works like star strings and [[?made in abyss]] exist, if only to reassure me that my own childhood is worth remembering and growing from.

on that note i want to say that the more fetishistic elements of tsukushis works not only make it really difficult to talk about and recommend, but it also undercuts my own enjoyment of his works. if theres one thing you know about tsukushi, its probably the fact that the guy is not shy about his fetishes. while im totally fine with fetishes being in a work or even a driving force of ones writing, it does kind of give me pause and a bit of uneasy when its applied to a work about childrens misery. 

of course theres the obvious fact of fetishizing children being objectionable on the face of it, but it also serves to undercut the deeper message of these works. at times i do wonder if the impactful portrayal of the effects of child abuse and neglect that hit me so deeply was just accidental, as if it was a byproduct of an artists thinly veiled fetish material. its easy enough to look past authorial intent, but i kind of wish i didnt have to sometimes.