2023-10-03
this engine is literally the most wonderful and infuriating things on the planet. its so close to being the coolest thing ever, but it just lacks that tiiiiiny little bit of polish that id really want to be there for me to be able to really take it seriously. i think about this game/engine a lot, way more than any healthy person should, and its always so baffling to me that potentially the coolest thing in the world is totally overshadowed and overlooked by everyone in favor of nintendos (comparatively) meek offerings, and fantasizing about some hypothetical super ultra mega cracked mario maker when its literally right here, just in a kind of rough exterior.

to be totally fair and honest, i havent spent as much time with this engine as other people have, and i could probably find some stuff i really really love if i just dug around a bit more. susan taxpayer is made in this engine and every time i see that game it looks super cool, but ive only seen screenshots and clips of it so i cant really speak on the feel of it. i do plan on really digging into the engines deeper cuts at some point. but the thing for me is that whenever i download the engine, i run across all these rough edges and it totally discourages me from going any further into my exploration. like when i download [[?gzdoom]], right off the bat after set up, thats coming out swinging with a whole host of really nice FPS games (gzdoom has its own share of issues in my book, but the point is it makes a stronger first impression), obviously [[?doom 1/2]] can be run on the engine, but maybe your first expose is [[?GZPT]] or [[vomitoreum]], both fantastic games on their own, and it really invites you to dig a little deeper and dip your toe into the pool of community maps and mods (games like vomitorium could do a better job of this imho by including some base doom support, but i digress) though i might be heavily biased based on my undying love of doom in all fairness. that being said though, my initially exposure to smbx has typically not been that smooth.

smbx has this weird little out of engine launcher that always initially pops up when you run the executable, BUT as far as i can tell you can just launch most of that stuff from within the engine itself anyways, so i dont really understand why thats an issue. the screen scaling is very weird, though thats a typical problem with most games if im being honest, usually this is an issue with a game engine itself not living it when you change the size of the window, and after personally switching to using graphics libraries like SDL2 and pixijs i dont really understand why window and screen scaling is such an issue still. specifically what im referring to is the fact that the game doesnt adapt to your window size, for me personally this is a huge thing, and it always sticks out as a little thing that goes a long way in making the engine feel right. transitions are basically non existent in the content that comes with smbx, this might not be a thing with other community led efforts, but in the base content its weird to me that the game just cuts to a black screen unceremoniously and then cuts back in in a new area. even just having a fade of the screen and music would go a long way in this regard, and its one of the first polish details i put into my work, abrupt cuts just dont feel good. those are really my main gripes, uh physics feel a bit weird sometimes, some of the visuals are a bit bland, and loading is just way too long (im really curious to know why the loading takes so long, like how much shit is this game loading into ram? again this might be kind of minor, but to me its just weird and raises a lot of questions about the back end of this thing).

to be totally clear im totally fine with rough edges, i revel in weird rough edges in video games. but theres a point at which everything else is at such a high level of quality that the little details start to stick out. i want rough edges at the rock climbing wall, but not in my bed if that makes any sense? this is the same issue i have with something like [[?minetest]]. the initial content really needs to grab me by itself, and ideally it should hint to the player that theres more under the surface if you go digging and take a chance on some mods since engines like this live and die on their community support.

im very hopeful for smbx (specifically smbx2, afaik thats the preferred engine?). taking a quick look through the "smbx direct 2023", SMATRS and the previously mentioned susan taxpayer, i see some stuff that really catches my eye and looks mighty impressive. despite everything ive said up to this point, i thing projects like smbx and [[?minetest]] are really important, and i want to see them flourish as much as possible. im very tired of highly segmented communities where everyone makes the same engine 200 times for their fan games. i just really want whatever mainline engine a community gets attached to to be as polished as it can be so everything else downstream can benefit as well. a game like [[vomitoreum]] can get better year after year simply by virtue of the engine it was developed on improving over time, and to me thats one of the really magical things about projects like this. shoutouts to the homies who keep these weird little engines alive and kicking, and heres hoping things improve in the future for this engine. please expect an update on this page around 2030 when i get good at smbx and release my magnum opus smbx level and learn to love the jank.

#games #engines