2023-11-29
i really enjoyed suzume. for reference i havent seen [[?weathering with you]], and i thought [[?your name (2016)]] was fun but dont have as big of a connection to it as i do [[?silent voice]] from the same year. up until now [[?5 centimeters per second]] was my favorite shinkai film, but (depending on a rewatch of centimeter) i think suzume might be my new favorite from him. i really enjoy the adventurous feel of suzume, and all its characters are delightful. while i think it has a few weak spots and things that could have been better fleshed out, it hooked me enough with the central journey and fun tone that i was sold.

this is very much a set piece road trip film, (this really is the [[pee-wees big adventure]] of anime frfr) and thats a style of story i really like. road trips are one of my favorite things in life, getting to see new things and spend time with people you like is a lot of fun. having that atmosphere come through in a work is usually a good way to get me to fall in love with it and suzume is no exception. i loved [[?heavenly delusion]] for a lot of the same reasons. theres a real joy in meeting new character, having a little moment of peace with them off to the side before moving back into the action. 

i love the little dive bar run by this unassuming single mom who moonlights as a hostess. this plucky little mom van lady brings me more joy than i thought possible. the world needs more cool bar mamas that double as actual factual mamas. very cool, keep it up. 

the abandoned places in this movie are a lot of fun as well. obvious the town at the start of the film is a highlight, its so big and mysterious and i want to live in it. the rundown amusement park was also a real joy to me. theres something about these weird, impractical mechanical structures being set dressing that speaks to me, [[?drifting home]] has a really good abandoned ferris wheel for reference. the little school near the start of the movie might be my personal favorite though. once or twice ive seen abandoned schools go up for sale on local markets, and every time i see that i think about how lovely it would be to turn a place like that into a home. its so off the beaten path and schools always have such beautiful layouts. its just so wonderful to me.

theres a secret little shrine gate underground in the movie, and i love that. but i love the path to it (or away from it in the context of the film?). its kind of tucked away and secretive. i have the secret little staircase only known to me brain worm and its making me go fucking mental for like a minute of this 2 hour long movie.

really aside from one small pacing hiccup at the gas station suzume does quite well for an anime film. i find that a lot of the time with these films the pacing can feel kind of all over the place and certain things arent as fleshed out as i would have liked, even [[?silent voice]] feels a little stretched at times despite me loving it anyways. i wouldnt say i like suzume more than silent voice, but i understand that thats mostly a personal connection thing. 

i feel like ill be rewatching this film again at some point. ive found that the one of the hallmarks for whether or not i really love a film is if im excited to rewatch the film. ive rewatched mamoru hosodas films like [[?summer wars]] multiple times each, [[?lupin cagliostro]] is my favorite miyazaki film and its one of the only ones ive seen more than 5 times. on the flip side, i havent felt this way about a shinkai film since [[?5 centimeters per second]] although i havent seen all of his films yet so that still may change. theres probably a direct correlation between how much i like a film and how many times ive sat down to rewatch it, and im happy to say suzume is giving me that itch. 