2024-03-06
this is specifically in reference to the serialized show, and not either of the movies. i have no real interest in the movies whatsoever. but i heard enough good about the show that i decided to watch it.

i ended up seeing a clip of the show before i knew it really existed. its the one where the two characters get high and have dinner with their family. i was completely under the assumption that it was just a clip from the movie, but i was really surprised that i a few of the jokes landed for me. after finding out that this was in fact a show, i decided i might as well give it a shot.

its certainly not the most exciting show, it took me a fair while to get through because the episodes are just kinda long and im not really that invested tbh. but i did finally finish it. i wouldnt say that this is the height of comedy or anything. but yknow what, shows that are linked to seth macfarlane has been at a fucking C- average my entire life, so this B+ is a nice change of pace.

i think this kind of proves to me that seth CAN be funny and write something good. i dont know maybe the fucking orville is secretly really good, ill never know. coming from watching family guy as a kid, i think the hour long episode structure and lack of cut away gags are a nice fit. like obviously this is still 100% seths humor. it has those trademark run on conversation jokes and that end of scene "ah haha we have fun here" thing? if you know you know i guess.

overall i think whats nice about this is that you really get to just sit with the characters. this is probably just my personal bias, i feel like i never shut the fuck up about wanting more time with my blorbos. but in a show like family guy, i dont usually get the sense that i know who peter is if that makes any fucking sense. i dont look forward to seeing those characters interact because i really get the sense that at some point they arent characters so much as they are a collection of characteristics and roles that can be heightened or dulled depending on the plot at the time. and i feel like thats really where ted shines, these characters never really betray who they are for the sake of a joke or anything. each character gets to have their own thing and the fun comes from the interactions between the characters.

like okay, ted and john have that kind of mind meld thing going on. they kind of just get lost in their own little conversations. and it trails off really easily. the kind of thing where you dont mind getting side tracked because youre just enjoying the other persons company. but when you pair him with another character like blaire (??? i had to look up all these characters names dude im so sorry) they interact in the exact way youd come to expect. blaire cuts ted off when he starts to go into his ramblings that kind of thing. you might call it predictable, but i dont know. its kind of nice coming to know a set of characters and then being rewarded when they talk to each other in a way that makes sense.

i dont know dude, the shows called ted, its about a fucking bear or whatever. YEEEHAW you can see it at your local torrent tracker. its like young sheldon if i actually watched that shit. fuck it.