2023-09-25
this game has not left my brain since the first time i played it years and year ago. it exists in that weird little catagory of [[cave story]]-likes that really only consists of this, [[?momodora]], [[?hack9]], and [[?the underside]] as far as im aware. there might be more, and i would love to see them, but those are the ones that come to mind. but honestly despite being similar to cave story on the vertical slice level, its pretty much its own thing entirely, and im kind of upset that i dont really hear anyone talk about the game.

the games honestly pretty bare bones in a lot of ways, the visuals are simple but serviceable (it shares a lot with [[?OFF]] in that regard honestly), and the game (and by extension its story) are over pretty quick. but in that little pocket of time that i played it it really left an impression on me. its somber tone and oddball story are really gripping if youre a specific type of weirdo whos into stories about little fuckers just having a really shitty time overall.

a lot of that emotional weight is being carried by the games soundtrack which was made by the developer GIRakaCHEEZER himself (sidenote on that, this fucker is kind of everywhere. like if you were a poverty kid with no money but access to a computer and unregulated internet access, theres a good chance this guy had a stronger presence in your life than your father). the song "azure song" is the official soundtrack of my bathroom and you can fucking fight me on that. and "what are birds" has such strong depressed clown vibes that i dont get super often outside of weird old CG shorts, and im so here for it. im not HUGE on listening to game OSTs in general (mostly because theres usually a lot of fluff songs that really only work in the context of playing a game) but this thing is straight gas and i listen to it fairly regularly while working or just going to the shops.

all that being said about the OST carrying a lot of the game, i will say that pretty much any area past the first FEELS cold thanks to the really great use of color and somewhat lackadaisical gameplay. it makes everything feel so lonesome and kind of anxious. really grim stuff just happens and the game carries on like its nothing.  when you pick up an item it says something like "you picked up the item." but when you pick up milly it very distinctly says "you picked up 'milly'." with her name in quotations as if its not REALLY milly. its kind of a small detail and it didnt have to be there, but it really adds to the tone. it seems like no matter how old i get, stories that revolve around death will always kind of get to me, [[synecdoche new york]] being the obvious example. on a sidenote, theres apparently a TVtropes page on the game? and it raises the point that the angel mors states that milly accept death while tess did not implying milly willingly commited suicide and roped tess into it for some reason which is the kind of thing that gets my little AO3 brain spinning. this is another case where i really want to know what the author had going on in their head when they made this, but unfortunately it seems like the announced sequel to the game was canceled at some point.

at the time that i would have played the game initially i probably would have been in my moms dingy little ash covered town house on an old loud as hell computer we got from some lady that had a bunch of weird batman porn on it in the middle of winter while my feet were that kind of cold thats not enough to hurt, but just enough to make you uncomfortable and be really depressing. thats tess overall in my opinion. it has that kid of weird middle of high school malaise to it, and if thats just because that was the headspace i was in when i played then so be it, thats how it exists in my head. forever in my mind next to really awful memories, and i wouldnt have it any other way if im being honest. media like tess is like a lint roller for memories like that. eventually youll be lint and cat hair free, but the memories of the game will always be covered in that stuff. good shit.

#games 