2023-09-25
i dont think i could die happy if i didnt get at least semi good at tetris. once youve played it a bit it becomes super satisfying and its an experience i havent really gotten anywhere else. a friend and i play every once in awhile, and having someone youre fairly evenly matched with really elevates the experience past what it might be otherwise. the game becomes incredibly tense and exciting. im not insanely good at the game, but im good enough to feel cool and thats honestly enough for me. pulling off massive combos is the most satisfying feeling in the world. i would kill for the option to save a replay as a little minimalist gif of the last play similar to [[opus magnum]], id amass such a collection of little tetris gifs, maybe ill just start recording my plays with OBS or something who knows. a replay file converter would be really nice though and for all i know it does exist and i just havent found it yet.

on that note i really want to praise tetr.io for its super slick client. ive been obsessed with [[?OSU]]-like clones of games for a long time, having a simple easy to use client for a game is such a godsend, and i wish more games were designed like this. i do wish that there was a little more customization, the whole thing is written in HTML as far as i can tell, and it would be really nice to have some custom theme support, there is tetr.io plus? but i havent tried that at all yet. tetr.io is currently the definitive way to play the modern tetris in my opinion (speaking as more of a designer than a player in all honesty, if youre reallllly into tetris im sure there might be some weird esoteric version of the game you prefer), but it could be more definitive-er (???) with some more improvements.

one thing ive wanted for a long time from games like tetr.io is the ability to use my own music collection, its one thing to just listen to music with a games audio turned off, but actually having the music sync up with whats happening on screen would be so nice. having a tagging system to tell the game what music folders to pull from, and what folders are best suited for what aspects of the game would be amazing. i understand that this is kind of just a me thing, and that most people dont have gigabytes of music saved on their computer anymore, BUT I DO and i want that dedication to file hoarding to pay the fuck off for once.

with any game type like this, i really like the idea of just having one go-to community driven version. why would we ever make a new version of tetris when we can just make tetr.io as feature complete as possible? [[super mario bros X]] was almost that for platformers, but it didnt really push far enough, or have the rigorous polish that tetr.io has. same with [[?minetest]] for [[?minecraft]]. games like this are so ubiquitous, why are we letting people outside of the community have all the control over them? i really long for a world where game series that have tons and tons of clones get their own little "engine game", something barebones that has all the functionality there to support pretty well any version of that concept on top of it making everything somewhat interchangeable, [[?gzdoom]] comes to mind as a an almost perfect example. why do we need more mario kart likes when they could all be modded into one game? maybe this is just a me thing but in the future i really want to push for more design like that. OSU seems to be moving in the direction of just being THE rythem game, and i hope more devs follow suit.

#games