2023-10-22
i absolutely loved this. as far as xavier dolan films go, ive only seem [[?mommy (2014)]] prior to this, and while this has a lot of different vibes and themes i feel like overall xaviers specific brand of canadian depression runs through both of these films really nicely. im curious to see the stage play this film was based on and how closely the two match, but id be surprised if the two were all that similar in tone given whos directing here. 

im sure my use of the term "canadian depression" would be really confusing to a lot of people. in my mind depression in canada is wholly different from depression in the united states especially when it comes to its portrait in media. a film like [[?requiem for a dream]] is an obvious example of something that is relatable to a canadian audience for sure, its feelings are pretty universal, but its distinctly american (i understand canada is part of america, this is just how we delineate canada from the states). theres a coldness, metaphorically and literally, in xavier dolans works, [[?crash (1996)]] (the david cronenberg one, not the racism one), even something like [[?scott pilgrim vs the world]]. they all have this dire feeling to them under the surface that ive only ever seen really replicated outside of canada by something like [[american football 1]] (for reference the later american football releases dont have the vibe im talking about) and soviet animations like [[?hedgehog in the fog]]. its dry, bitter, it stings in a way thats difficult to put onto paper if you arent familiar with it.

xavier dolan exemplifies this feeling beautiful with his dull washed out colors and overcast skies. shots filled with endless stretches of brren roads and wasted space. there are some shots at the end of "tom at the farm" of montreal that are so deeply saddening to me. ive never been to montreal, but nevertheless ive been on those streets, i know exacltly how it feels and i know the feelings tom is grappling with by the time the credits roll. at one point near the end, the mother character becomes distressed over things not playing out in the way she expects, "why isnt she sad, why didnt she rush to his grave, no one dies at 25", lines like this cut me to my core. that feeling of needing to maintain the status quo at all costs. every character is desperately clawing at perceived normalcy the way all canadians subconsciously do. americas nationalism is visible and overt while canadas is the loudest undercurrent youve never heard.

i want more people to see this film as well as [[?mommy (2014)]], theyre autobiographical for an entire subset of youth in this country that i feel like often gets overlooked. this film hit me right at the peak of a depressive episode and its ended up really sticking with me and changing how i perceive certain things in my own life. after viewing the film i read a quote from the playwright michel marc bouchard along the lines of "homosexual learn to lie before they learn to love. we are courageous mythomaniacs". that kind of sums up my experience with this film and contextualized my very complex feelings on it better than i ever could have. this is a film ill for sure be viewing again in the future.