2023-10-03
i got around to watching twin peaks recently, its one of those fundamental series that ends up enhancing your enjoyment of other works. very much an [[?evangelion]] type situation where everything made after evangelion is just evangelion (half joking? i say this a lot, but what i really mean is that theres just a lot of eva in other post-eva things and its kind of unavoidable). twin peaks is kind of the same way, after having watched it myself ive found myself reexamining some of the specifically japanese media ive consumed over the years. the obvious examples are [[?deadly premonition]] and [[?mizzurna falls]], but if i had to wager id say [[?silent hill 2]] and some of suda51s works like [[?killer7]] and [[?the silver case]] probably share some DNA as well, though those latter 2 might be kind thin connection-wise. part of me also feels [[dorohedoro]] has a lil twin peaks in it with its heavy focus on slice of life which in both cases really stand out against their respective "main" focuses (though admittedly this connection is probably even even more loose if im being totally honest).

i think its really interesting that twin peaks had such a large impact in japan, the show feels very eastern in its approach to a lot of things. the same way that [[?berserk]] or [[?full metal alchemist]] feel like "eastern" in regards to their depictions of typically medieval and european themes respectively. agent cooper and albert might as well have come from a totally different country with how they treat twin peaks, and i think that putting someone as unfamiliar with small town life as dale cooper in the drivers seat probably helped the shows success in japan, it really gives an easy to pick up lens by which someone could view the unfamiliar town from. beyond that, the way twin peaks handles things like dale coopers abilities or the towns mystery feel very unlike other western produced detective shows (though i might feel differently if i were to watch more similar shows from around that time period, im basing this mostly off my more modern context, and by modern i mean early 2000s because i havent had TV in years). in any other show, dale would probably have been an albert, feeling stand offish and relying on his intellect to help solve cases. dale feels like a real breath of fresh air when compared to other detective characters i saw a lot on TV growing up, hes eager, kind, not afraid to get on other peoples levels, and his indulgence in mysticism is particularly fascinating.

the fact that a large portion of the shows mysteries are solved in no small part by letting this quirky CIA agent literally throw darts at a board while he talks about tibetan monks and the strange little man in his dreams is so exciting and inventive. and the fact that most of those mysteries are in part the result of some kind of mystical element is just wonderful. theres no scooby doo mask pull, there just really is an angry little ghost (or maybe there isnt, ig there is a lot up to speculation idk im sure someone has an elaborate bob theory). and the show treats all these campy elements like the visions, the CG night stand, the log lady with the same level as respect as the actual real murders, and i think thats amazing. maybe its all too silly for a lot of people, but i think its what give it its charm. this is the [[?alien 9 (anime)]] of crime drama television and i love it so much.

as of right now i still havent seen [[?fire walk with me]], or [[?twin peaks: the return]]. im kind of saving the movie for later, and i dont have the energy for a 3rd season at the moment (im also kind of worried it wont feel quite the same, but i do want to give it a shot at some point down the line). though on the topic of follow up material, its kind of interesting that the show didnt receive a 3rd season at least not in the traditional sense, i feel like after so much time has passed its probably not super fair to say that the third season is a follow up to the second in the same way that the second is a follow up to the first (same thing applies to [[?samurai jack]] to [[?samurai jack s5]], or [[?big O]] and [[?big O II]], too much has changed contextually and textually for me to think of them as cohesive). though i might feel different after watching the return, but i kind of doubt it. she show itself ends on such a weird note and i kind of hope that the official third season ends in a similar manner because i honestly think that ambiguity gives the show a lot of its mystique if that makes sense. it gets the little AO3 fanfic writer brain going and envisioning how the actual fuck youre going to make it all make sense (this is a commonality between media i adore i think, it leaves so much up in the air that even the parts i dont like become fanfic brain fodder like its the fucking [[?homestuck epilogues]]).

also something something i want to kiss dale cooper so bad, i ship him and lucy and you cANTT FUCKING STOP ME!

#shows