2023-10-07
i love this game so much. it feels and looks wonderful. ive been following scumhead for quite awhile and while i wasnt really a huge fan of their pre-vomitoreum work, i was still interested in where it was all headed. luckily for me and the world as a whole scumhead really improved between each game. their prior games [[?lycanthorn]] and [[?shrine (game)]] always felt a little undercooked to me, and i could never really get into them despite really enjoying a lot of their individual components and respecting the wonderful [[?gzdoom]] work scumhead was pulling off.

one of the things that bugged me about scumheads previous games was the pixel art aesthetic mixed with lack of fog or lightinging making everything feel a bit too busy in a way that really clashed with the gameplay and made it a fairly unenjoyable experience to play despite the visuals in a vacuum being very well made. vomitoreum manages to fix this issue and take the visuals so far beyond scumheads prior work, everything is crisp and wonderfully detailed where it needs to be. and the color palettes are so well made that youre pretty well never confused as to whats what with its excellent color separation. the introduction of fog also really helps give everything depth and helps pull details like enemies and landmarks out of the background making for a much smoother gameplay experience.

speaking of gameplay, the moment to moment gameplay is a joy. aside from a few semi notable exceptions exploring the world was a breeze, new areas opened up frequently and there was always something interesting around the corner. the variety of pickups aids this sense of exploration, a curious mind is often rewarded with an upgrade or some tidbit of lore.

weapons really shine here and i found myself switching between the different options somewhat frequently. the combination of punchy sounds and really beautiful particle effects makes for a great experience as you work your way through enemy encounters. a little more depth and utility to the weapons would have been nice to have, but whats here is great and taking a peak at some of scumheads later projects like [[?angels gear]] it seems like this aspect only gets better as they progress as an artist.

the roster of enemies really took me by surprise, i was not expecting as much resistance as i got at certain points in the game. the flamethrower enemies and some of gunners in particular really surprised me, the amount of damage you can sustain if you arent careful is staggering and it really put me on edge at times. and the selection of enemies in the snowy forest are were a ton of fun, and i liked the way they kind of played off each other, making up for the others shortcomings. my only real gripe with the enemies in this game is the fact that they stay dead permanently. this is due to the fact that scumhead chose to set the entire game inside of one map file, which for their use case might have been the right decision given [[?gzdoom]]s weird arbitrary restrictions on stuff like auto saving, however this has the downside of making backtracking feel a little dull and it being a little more taxing on your computer at times. i probably would have segmented the maps, but i suppose it does also add to the atmosphere of the game in some way. 

locations in vomitoreum are also super cozy in that unnerving way. there area near the start right past the mushrooms with all the graves has this really beautiful horizon you can look out to. theres an ungeround subway railroad thats pure calcium/core/ through and through. fleshy caverns in this game feel really formidable and really warm feeling, i want to sit around in them all day. theres a giant lake with a single structure on one end of it and i just think it looks really fun to be around, large bodies of water always smell really interesting and the sound of the water itself is usually really soothing. 

the only real gripes i have with the game are fairly minor and technical. keep in mind im fairly used to the [[?gzdoom]] engine and its many many quirks, so some this might just be me being picky, and it doesnt impact the game itself at all, its just something i think about a lot. when making content for gzdoom, you can have certain actors replace others if theyre found, this is mostly used for modding, making it easy to replace an enemy or an item with a custom one from your mod. vomitoreum doesnt take advantage of this, and i think it could. adding a basic replacement script to your standalone gzdoom game means that your game suddenly has some level of support for the thousands of community made doom maps on the market (you can take this a step further by providing your own replacements for all the base doom textures, but thats a bit much to ask of most devs tbh). this usually doesnt add much time to development, its one file that can be written up in about an hour or two, and it means your retail game has a built in modding community for freaks like me who want you play your metroidvania like a normal boomer shooter.

i havent had a chance to play any of scumheads other games, but they look really interesting. as far as i know they dropped [[?gzdoom]] awhile after vomitoreums release (i dont blame them really, its a lot of fun but its also quite limited especially for someone like scumhead who seems to have wider ambitions). but they may be returning with a recently announced game [[?mohrtha]] that looks insane, you can really see the improvement coming from vomitoreum to this. im 90% [[?darxanadon]] is somewhat inspired by [[faxanadu]] and if thats not a surefire way to get me interested in your game i dont know what is. [[?franzen]] is an rpg maker game, and given the track record with pixel art, im very eager to see an rpg from scumhead, this looks like itll deliver. i followed the development of [[?angels gear]] up until release and i might give it a shot, the combat looks like a lot of fun and it seems to be the latest large release from them so its on my radar for sure.

#games #metroidvania 