2023-09-25
i know a lot of people dislike wonder egg priority, specifically pointing out its confusing and rushed ending. but honestly i kind of love that aspect of WEP, its hella rough around the edges, but in my opinion that adds to its charm and doesnt really take away from everything else the series has going for it. the whole show is dripping in this really wonderful atmosphere thats very relatable to me at the time that i watched it about a year or two ago, and while i havent seen it since, so much of the series still really sticks out in my mind and i hope to watch it again some time soon.

the concept is immediately intriguing and a lot more to the point than most series are willing to push towards. and while that certainly can come off as kind of try hard as in the case of [[?elfen lied]] or [[?magical girl site]] (though i still think series like those have their place in the media landscape specifically for younger viewers facing very complex emotions), here it handles everything really tastefully in my opinion at least. it reminds me a lot of [[?takopis original sin]] in some ways, and i think both series are really great examples of tackling domestic issues head on and uncompromisingly. its something that ive been trying to emulate and get a grasp on in my own writing for a long time and while wonder egg doesnt always hit the mark especially with its subtext later on, it does so much right that im willing to forgive its short comings.

theres so much to love in wonder egg and it has so much potential that i really really hope the staff behind it get to make a continuation of some kind. i had a really good time with wonder egg and i want to watch it again at some point, and i think it deserves more, or at the very least the staff behind it should get more chances to do more groundbreaking stuff. for what its worth ive got my eye on wakabayashi, the director according to MAL, and specifically [[?ano hi no kanojo-tachi]] (the diary of our days, not to be confused with [[?diary of our days at the breakwater]] which ive also had an eye on which im pretty sure i heard about in a [[?kofuku (YT)]] video but i cant remember). overall im eager for more surreal and heartfelt experiences like wonder egg, in that regard i think i want to give [[?sonny boy]], [[?urasekai picnic]], and [[?flip flappers]] a shot at some point. say what you will about MAL, i certainly will, but its recommendation system is pretty neato if a little under understocked at times if that makes sense.

#anime