zerahypt/terrahypt is really interesting, at least on a conceptual level. the "game" isnt too interesting on its own, its fairly basic in a lot of ways and feels pretty unfinished a lot of the time (mostly because it is). and to be clear there isnt anything wrong with that, a lot of work was put into zerahypt and it shows, its just that the bulk of that work seems to be at the conceptual stage instead of the implementation stage and thats what im interested in.

zerahypt should probably be a cautionary tale to any developer thinking of making something far above what is within their grasp. syrsa has stated he wants to work on this project the rest of his life and has a seemingly endless amount of lore for the world and its characters, height charts, gravity simulations. the "game" portion was billed as syrsas understanding of the world and he tends to talk of the game and its lore in a really interesting "im not making this, im interpreting it" kind of way? he doesnt even refer to zerahypt as a game which makes a lot of sense as to why its just a lot of feature creep. theres so much here and that really kind of became the downfall of the project, being seemingly cancelled after a number of setbacks.

zerahypt was developed in the unity engine (most general purpose game engines arent the best choice for projects like this, they just dont scale well). the big straw that fucking obliterated this camel was the version of unity syrsa was using being unable to compile all its assets after years of accumulating models, shaders, and code. at the time it was one of the big wake up calls for me, i had been on the fence about engines like unity for a long time and it was sort of a "oh yeah these things are super unpredictable" moment. embarking on a large almost decade spanning project is a huge undertaking and random engine updates or format shifts can ruin you overnight. its impossible to have security in what youre making when the tech landscape is moving so fast.

all that is to say that perhaps zerahypt is not the form this lore really needed to be brought to life. maybe syrsa would disagree, i dont know, but so much work was put into the project and i feel like a pivot could happen into another medium. i think a lot about works like [[?discworld]], [[?lord of the ring]], or [[?harry potter]] (i know... i know), books ive never read but im always astonished at the amount of interconnected lore the authors can cook up and just never use. i get the feeling that if syrsa wanted, he could write like 10 smaller novels based around terrahypt and by the time those were done hed have enough added lore to write another 20. "how did they ever make a game of terrahypt" and all that.

i yearn to have this level of lore under my belt, i feel like a lot of other artists do too. the "OC lore that lives in my head" meme has been popular for years, but most of us just never write these things down because that becomes work. ive started writing stuff like that down when it pops into my head and its become a really fun exercise, jotting something down on my phone quickly when it strikes me, staying up an extra hour because i just keep getting hit with story beats or character motivations. part of me wonders if these other authors do the same. maybe it foolish of me that ive taken the exact wrong lessons from zerahypt, opting to start large, sweeping, year spanning projects. but, at least for right now, i think thats kind of where i want to be, i have a lot of small things that could be released at any time, but i want them to be part of a larger whole because i dont want to blow my load too early if that makes sense. i dont know, maybe this is some kind of brain defect that makes me unable to think long term or something.